src/main/asciidoc/jsf-ajax/jsf-ajax003.adoc, before:

[[GKABR]][[using-ajax-with-facelets]]

== Using Ajax with Facelets

As mentioned in the previous section, Jakarta Server Faces technology
supports Ajax by using a built-in JavaScript resource library that is
provided as part of the Jakarta Server Faces core libraries. This built-in
Ajax resource can be used in Jakarta Server Faces web applications in one of
the following ways.

* By using the `f:ajax` tag along with another standard component in a
Facelets application. This method adds Ajax functionality to any UI
component without additional coding and configuration.
* By using the JavaScript API method `jsf.ajax.request()` directly
within the Facelets application. This method provides direct access to
Ajax methods and allows customized control of component behavior.
* By using the `<h:commandScript>` component to execute arbitrary
server-side methods from a view. The component generates a JavaScript
function with a given name that when invoked, in turn invokes, a given
server-side method via Ajax.

[[GKAFN]][[using-the-fajax-tag]]

=== Using the f:ajax Tag

The `f:ajax` tag is a Jakarta Server Faces core tag that provides Ajax
functionality to any regular UI component when used in conjunction with
that component. In the following example, Ajax behavior is added to an
input component by including the `f:ajax` core tag:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText value="#{bean.message}">
    <f:ajax />
</h:inputText>
----

In this example, although Ajax is enabled, the other attributes of the
`f:ajax` tag are not defined. If an event is not defined, the default
action for the component is performed. For the `inputText` component,
when no `event` attribute is specified, the default event is
`valueChange`. link:#GKDER[Table 13-1] lists the attributes of the
`f:ajax` tag and their default actions.

[[sthref69]][[GKDER]]

*Table 13-1 Attributes of the f:ajax Tag*

[width="99%",cols="15%,25%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Name* |*Type* |*Description*
|`disabled` |`javax.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `Boolean` |A
`Boolean` value that identifies the tag status. A value of `true`
indicates that the Ajax behavior should not be rendered. A value of
`false` indicates that the Ajax behavior should be rendered. The default
value is `false`.

|`event` |`javax.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `String` |A
`String` that identifies the type of event to which the Ajax action will
apply. If specified, it must be one of the events supported by the
component. If not specified, the default event (the event that triggers
the Ajax request) is determined for the component. The default event is
`action` for `javax.faces.component.ActionSource` components and
`valueChange` for `javax.faces.component.EditableValueHolder`
components.

|`execute` |`javax.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to an `Object` |A
`Collection` that identifies a list of components to be executed on the
server. If a literal is specified, it must be a space-delimited `String`
of component identifiers and/or one of the keywords. If a
`ValueExpression` is specified, it must refer to a property that returns
a `Collection` of `String` objects. If not specified, the default value
is `@this`.

|`immediate` |`javax.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `Boolean`
|A `Boolean` value that indicates whether inputs are to be processed
early in the lifecycle. If `true`, behavior events generated from this
behavior are broadcast during the Apply Request Values phase. Otherwise,
the events will be broadcast during the Invoke Application phase.

|`listener` |`javax.el.MethodExpression` |The name of the listener
method that is called when a `javax.faces.event.AjaxBehaviorEvent` has
been broadcast for the listener.

|`onevent` |`javax.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `String` |The
name of the JavaScript function that handles UI events.

|`onerror` |`javax.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `String` |The
name of the JavaScript function that handles errors.

|`render` |`javax.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to an `Object` |A
`Collection` that identifies a list of components to be rendered on the
client. If a literal is specified, it must be a space-delimited `String`
of component identifiers and/or one of the keywords. If a
`ValueExpression` is specified, it must refer to a property that returns
a `Collection` of `String` objects. If not specified, the default value
is `@none`.
|=======================================================================


The keywords listed in link:#GKNLK[Table 13-2] can be used with the
`execute` and `render` attributes of the `f:ajax` tag.

[[sthref70]][[GKNLK]]

*Table 13-2 Execute and Render Keywords*

[width="60%",cols="15%,45%"]
|===============================================
|*Keyword* |*Description*
|`@all` |All component identifiers
|`@form` |The form that encloses the component
|`@none` |No component identifiers
|`@this` |The element that triggered the request
|===============================================


Note that when you use the `f:ajax` tag in a Facelets page, the
JavaScript resource library is loaded implicitly. This resource library
can also be loaded explicitly as described in
link:#GKAAM[Loading JavaScript as a Resource].

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/jsf-ajax/jsf-ajax003.adoc, after:

[[GKABR]][[using-ajax-with-facelets]]

== Using Ajax with Facelets

As mentioned in the previous section, Jakarta Server Faces technology
supports Ajax by using a built-in JavaScript resource library that is
provided as part of the Jakarta Server Faces core libraries. This built-in
Ajax resource can be used in Jakarta Server Faces web applications in one of
the following ways.

* By using the `f:ajax` tag along with another standard component in a
Facelets application. This method adds Ajax functionality to any UI
component without additional coding and configuration.
* By using the JavaScript API method `jsf.ajax.request()` directly
within the Facelets application. This method provides direct access to
Ajax methods and allows customized control of component behavior.
* By using the `<h:commandScript>` component to execute arbitrary
server-side methods from a view. The component generates a JavaScript
function with a given name that when invoked, in turn invokes, a given
server-side method via Ajax.

[[GKAFN]][[using-the-fajax-tag]]

=== Using the f:ajax Tag

The `f:ajax` tag is a Jakarta Server Faces core tag that provides Ajax
functionality to any regular UI component when used in conjunction with
that component. In the following example, Ajax behavior is added to an
input component by including the `f:ajax` core tag:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText value="#{bean.message}">
    <f:ajax />
</h:inputText>
----

In this example, although Ajax is enabled, the other attributes of the
`f:ajax` tag are not defined. If an event is not defined, the default
action for the component is performed. For the `inputText` component,
when no `event` attribute is specified, the default event is
`valueChange`. link:#GKDER[Table 13-1] lists the attributes of the
`f:ajax` tag and their default actions.

[[sthref69]][[GKDER]]

*Table 13-1 Attributes of the f:ajax Tag*

[width="99%",cols="15%,25%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Name* |*Type* |*Description*
|`disabled` |`jakarta.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `Boolean` |A
`Boolean` value that identifies the tag status. A value of `true`
indicates that the Ajax behavior should not be rendered. A value of
`false` indicates that the Ajax behavior should be rendered. The default
value is `false`.

|`event` |`jakarta.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `String` |A
`String` that identifies the type of event to which the Ajax action will
apply. If specified, it must be one of the events supported by the
component. If not specified, the default event (the event that triggers
the Ajax request) is determined for the component. The default event is
`action` for `jakarta.faces.component.ActionSource` components and
`valueChange` for `jakarta.faces.component.EditableValueHolder`
components.

|`execute` |`jakarta.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to an `Object` |A
`Collection` that identifies a list of components to be executed on the
server. If a literal is specified, it must be a space-delimited `String`
of component identifiers and/or one of the keywords. If a
`ValueExpression` is specified, it must refer to a property that returns
a `Collection` of `String` objects. If not specified, the default value
is `@this`.

|`immediate` |`jakarta.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `Boolean`
|A `Boolean` value that indicates whether inputs are to be processed
early in the lifecycle. If `true`, behavior events generated from this
behavior are broadcast during the Apply Request Values phase. Otherwise,
the events will be broadcast during the Invoke Application phase.

|`listener` |`jakarta.el.MethodExpression` |The name of the listener
method that is called when a `jakarta.faces.event.AjaxBehaviorEvent` has
been broadcast for the listener.

|`onevent` |`jakarta.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `String` |The
name of the JavaScript function that handles UI events.

|`onerror` |`jakarta.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to a `String` |The
name of the JavaScript function that handles errors.

|`render` |`jakarta.el.ValueExpression` that evaluates to an `Object` |A
`Collection` that identifies a list of components to be rendered on the
client. If a literal is specified, it must be a space-delimited `String`
of component identifiers and/or one of the keywords. If a
`ValueExpression` is specified, it must refer to a property that returns
a `Collection` of `String` objects. If not specified, the default value
is `@none`.
|=======================================================================


The keywords listed in link:#GKNLK[Table 13-2] can be used with the
`execute` and `render` attributes of the `f:ajax` tag.

[[sthref70]][[GKNLK]]

*Table 13-2 Execute and Render Keywords*

[width="60%",cols="15%,45%"]
|===============================================
|*Keyword* |*Description*
|`@all` |All component identifiers
|`@form` |The form that encloses the component
|`@none` |No component identifiers
|`@this` |The element that triggered the request
|===============================================


Note that when you use the `f:ajax` tag in a Facelets page, the
JavaScript resource library is loaded implicitly. This resource library
can also be loaded explicitly as described in
link:#GKAAM[Loading JavaScript as a Resource].
