STYLE_GUIDE.adoc, before:

= Jakarta EE Tutorial Style Guide

This document describes the requirements for new writing contributions to the Jakarta EE Tutorial;
it includes a mixture of writing and https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/[Asciidoc] / https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/[Antora] guidelines.

== Eclipse Writing Style Guide

New contributions must follow the https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/[Eclipse Writing Style Guide] in addition to the guidelines mentioned herein.
If there is a conflict, the guidelines in this document take precedence.

== Tone and Voice

Use a first-person voice but a professional tone and avoid slang.
New tutorial material should be easy to read and approachable.

For more guidelines, see https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#3[Tone and Voice].

== Common Words, Names, and Abbreviations

When using the following words, names, and abbreviations, consistently use the spelling and capitalization below:

* "Basic authentication"
* "Form authentication"
* WAR
* JAR
* HTML
* Profile names should be capitalized
(Core Profile, Web Profile, etc.)

== Using Hyphens

Be aware of when to use a hyphen, especially for multiple-word adjectives before or after a noun. For example, "water-based paint" and "paint that is water based". See https://www.grammarly.com/blog/hyphen/[this article] and https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#21[Compound Words and Hyphenation] for details.

== Lists

For lists, use:

* A colon before the list
* Auto-numbering Asciidoc syntax
* Avoid repeating the same word at the beginning of each bullet point
(for example, "Use" or "Execute")
* Use a period at the end of complete sentences, but don't use a period otherwise.

For example:

[source, asciidoc]
----
You'll learn how to:

. Define security constraints
. Provided authentication mechanisms
. How to set a provided identity store that uses a database
----

See https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#32[Lists] for more details.

== Internal Links

You can easily link to other headings in the current document.
For example, given the following heading:

[source,asciidoc]
----
== This is My Header
----

You can link to it like so:

[source,asciidoc]
----
Ths is a link to my header: <<_this_is_my_header>>
----

=== Links to Other Pages

Links to other pages in the tutorial should be in the following format:

[source, asciidoc]
----
* xref:module-name/file-nameo.adoc#_anchor_name[Link Text]
----

For example:

[source, asciidoc]
----
* xref:security-intro/security-intro.adoc#_introduction_to_security_in_the_jakarta_ee_platform[Introduction to Security in the Jakarta EE Platform]
----

See the https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/page/xref/[Antora xref docs] for more information.

== Definitions

Use bold for a word when defining it.
For example, "*Java* is a high-level, class-based, object-oriented programming language that is designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible." (Wikipedia)

== Line Breaks

Use a line break after a substantial unit of thought,
such as a sentence or after an important comma.
For details, see https://sembr.org/[Semantic Line Breaks].

== Use of etc., e.g. and i.e.

In short, don't use them etc., e.g., and i.e.
See https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#31[Latinisms].

Commit message:

JETUT-14 Added details about creating an anchor for section.

STYLE_GUIDE.adoc, after:

= Jakarta EE Tutorial Style Guide

This document describes the requirements for new writing contributions to the Jakarta EE Tutorial;
it includes a mixture of writing and https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/[Asciidoc] / https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/[Antora] guidelines.

== Eclipse Writing Style Guide

New contributions must follow the https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/[Eclipse Writing Style Guide] in addition to the guidelines mentioned herein.
If there is a conflict, the guidelines in this document take precedence.

== Tone and Voice

Use a first-person voice but a professional tone and avoid slang.
New tutorial material should be easy to read and approachable.

For more guidelines, see https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#3[Tone and Voice].

== Common Words, Names, and Abbreviations

When using the following words, names, and abbreviations, consistently use the spelling and capitalization below:

* "Basic authentication"
* "Form authentication"
* WAR
* JAR
* HTML
* Profile names should be capitalized
(Core Profile, Web Profile, etc.)

== Using Hyphens

Be aware of when to use a hyphen, especially for multiple-word adjectives before or after a noun. For example, "water-based paint" and "paint that is water based". See https://www.grammarly.com/blog/hyphen/[this article] and https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#21[Compound Words and Hyphenation] for details.

== Lists

For lists, use:

* A colon before the list
* Auto-numbering Asciidoc syntax
* Avoid repeating the same word at the beginning of each bullet point
(for example, "Use" or "Execute")
* Use a period at the end of complete sentences, but don't use a period otherwise.

For example:

[source, asciidoc]
----
You'll learn how to:

. Define security constraints
. Provided authentication mechanisms
. How to set a provided identity store that uses a database
----

See https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#32[Lists] for more details.

== Internal Links

You can easily link to other headings in the current document.
For example, given the following heading:

[source,asciidoc]
----
== This is My Header
----

You can link to it like so:

[source,asciidoc]
----
Ths is a link to my header: <<_this_is_my_header>>
----

=== Links to Other Pages

Links to other pages in the tutorial should be in the following format:

[source, asciidoc]
----
* xref:module-name/file-nameo.adoc#_anchor_name[Link Text]
----

For example:

[source, asciidoc]
----
* xref:security-intro/security-intro.adoc#_introduction_to_security_in_the_jakarta_ee_platform[Introduction to Security in the Jakarta EE Platform]
----

See the https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/page/xref/[Antora xref docs^] for more information.

TIP: If you want to give a heading a permanent identifier, you can https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/attributes/id/#add-additional-anchors-to-a-section[add an anchor to the section^] and use that instead.

== Definitions

Use bold for a word when defining it.
For example, "*Java* is a high-level, class-based, object-oriented programming language that is designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible." (Wikipedia)

== Line Breaks

Use a line break after a substantial unit of thought,
such as a sentence or after an important comma.
For details, see https://sembr.org/[Semantic Line Breaks].

== Use of etc., e.g. and i.e.

In short, don't use them etc., e.g., and i.e.
See https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/writing-style-guide/#31[Latinisms].
