src/main/antora/modules/persist/pages/persistence-querylanguage/persistence-querylanguage004.adoc, before:

== Simplified Query Language Syntax

This section briefly describes the syntax of the query language so that you can quickly move on to <<_example_queries>>.
When you are ready to learn about the syntax in more detail, see <<_full_query_language_syntax>>.

=== Select Statements

A select query has six clauses: `SELECT`, `FROM`, `WHERE`, `GROUP BY`, `HAVING`, and `ORDER BY`.
The `SELECT` and `FROM` clauses are required, but the `WHERE`, `GROUP BY`, `HAVING`, and `ORDER BY` clauses are optional.
Here is the high-level BNF syntax of a query language select query:

[source,java]
----
QL_statement ::= select_clause from_clause 
  [where_clause][groupby_clause][having_clause][orderby_clause]
----

The BNF syntax defines the following clauses.

* The `SELECT` clause defines the types of the objects or values returned by the query.

* The `FROM` clause defines the scope of the query by declaring one or more identification variables, which can be referenced in the `SELECT` and `WHERE` clauses.
An identification variable represents one of the following elements:

** The abstract schema name of an entity

** An element of a collection relationship

** An element of a single-valued relationship

** A member of a collection that is the multiple side of a one-to-many relationship

* The `WHERE` clause is a conditional expression that restricts the objects or values retrieved by the query.
Although the clause is optional, most queries have a `WHERE` clause.

* The `GROUP BY` clause groups query results according to a set of properties.

* The `HAVING` clause is used with the `GROUP BY` clause to further restrict the query results according to a conditional expression.

* The `ORDER BY` clause sorts the objects or values returned by the query into a specified order.

=== Update and Delete Statements

Update and delete statements provide bulk operations over sets of entities.
These statements have the following syntax:

[source,java]
----
update_statement :: = update_clause [where_clause] 
delete_statement :: = delete_clause [where_clause]
----

The update and delete clauses determine the type of the entities to be updated or deleted.
The `WHERE` clause may be used to restrict the scope of the update or delete operation.

Commit message:

JETUT-139 LinkChecker recommmendations for persistence

src/main/antora/modules/persist/pages/persistence-querylanguage/persistence-querylanguage004.adoc, after:

== Simplified Query Language Syntax

This section briefly describes the syntax of the query language so that you can quickly move on to xref:persistence-querylanguage/persistence-querylanguage.adoc#_example_queries[Example Queries].
When you are ready to learn about the syntax in more detail, see xref:persistence-querylanguage/persistence-querylanguage.adoc#_full_query_language_syntax[Full Query Language Syntax].

=== Select Statements

A select query has six clauses: `SELECT`, `FROM`, `WHERE`, `GROUP BY`, `HAVING`, and `ORDER BY`.
The `SELECT` and `FROM` clauses are required, but the `WHERE`, `GROUP BY`, `HAVING`, and `ORDER BY` clauses are optional.
Here is the high-level BNF syntax of a query language select query:

[source,java]
----
QL_statement ::= select_clause from_clause 
  [where_clause][groupby_clause][having_clause][orderby_clause]
----

The BNF syntax defines the following clauses.

* The `SELECT` clause defines the types of the objects or values returned by the query.

* The `FROM` clause defines the scope of the query by declaring one or more identification variables, which can be referenced in the `SELECT` and `WHERE` clauses.
An identification variable represents one of the following elements:

** The abstract schema name of an entity

** An element of a collection relationship

** An element of a single-valued relationship

** A member of a collection that is the multiple side of a one-to-many relationship

* The `WHERE` clause is a conditional expression that restricts the objects or values retrieved by the query.
Although the clause is optional, most queries have a `WHERE` clause.

* The `GROUP BY` clause groups query results according to a set of properties.

* The `HAVING` clause is used with the `GROUP BY` clause to further restrict the query results according to a conditional expression.

* The `ORDER BY` clause sorts the objects or values returned by the query into a specified order.

=== Update and Delete Statements

Update and delete statements provide bulk operations over sets of entities.
These statements have the following syntax:

[source,java]
----
update_statement :: = update_clause [where_clause] 
delete_statement :: = delete_clause [where_clause]
----

The update and delete clauses determine the type of the entities to be updated or deleted.
The `WHERE` clause may be used to restrict the scope of the update or delete operation.
