src/main/asciidoc/cdi-basic/cdi-basic001.adoc, before:

[[BABJDJGA]][[getting-started]]

== Getting Started

Contexts and Dependency Injection (CDI) enables your objects to have
their dependencies provided to them automatically, instead of creating
them or receiving them as parameters. CDI also manages the lifecycle of
those dependencies for you.

For example, consider the following servlet:

[source,java]
----
@WebServlet("/cdiservlet")
public class NewServlet extends HttpServlet {
    private Message message;

    @Override
    public void init() {
        message = new MessageB();
    }

    @Override
    public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
                  throws IOException {
        response.getWriter().write(message.get());
    }
}
----

This servlet needs an instance of an object that implements the
`Message` interface:

[source,java]
----
public interface Message {
    public String get();
}
----

The servlet creates itself an instance of the following object:

[source,java]
----
public class MessageB implements Message {
    public MessageB() { }

    @Override
    public String get() {
        return "message B";
    }
}
----

Using CDI, this servlet can declare its dependency on a `Message`
instance and have it injected automatically by the CDI runtime. The new
servlet code is the following:

[source,java]
----
@WebServlet("/cdiservlet")
public class NewServlet extends HttpServlet {
    @Inject private Message message;

    @Override
    public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
                  throws IOException {
        response.getWriter().write(message.get());
    }
}
----

The CDI runtime looks for classes that implement the `Message`
interface, finds the `MessageB` class, creates a new instance of it, and
injects it into the servlet at runtime. To manage the lifecycle of the
new instance, the CDI runtime needs to know what the scope of the
instance should be. In this example, the servlet only needs the instance
to process an HTTP request; the instance can then be garbage collected.
This is specified using the `jakarta.enterprise.context.RequestScoped`
annotation:

[source,java]
----
@RequestScoped
public class MessageB implements Message { ... }
----

For more information on scopes, see link:#GJBBK[Using
Scopes].

The `MessageB` class is a CDI bean. CDI beans are classes that CDI can
instantiate, manage, and inject automatically to satisfy the
dependencies of other objects. Almost any Java class can be managed and
injected by CDI. For more information on beans, see
link:#GJEBJ[About Beans]. A JAR or WAR file that
contains a CDI bean is a bean archive. For more information on packaging
bean archives, see link:#GJBNZ[Configuring a CDI
Application] in this chapter and link:#CACDCFDE[Packaging
CDI Applications] in link:#GJEHI[Chapter 27, "Contexts and
Dependency Injection for Jakarta EE: Advanced Topics"].

In this example, `MessageB` is the only class that implements the
`Message` interface. If an application has more than one implementation
of an interface, CDI provides mechanisms that you can use to select
which implementation to inject. For more information, see
link:#GJBCK[Using Qualifiers] in this chapter and
link:#GJSDF[Using Alternatives in CDI Applications] in
link:#GJEHI[Chapter 27, "Contexts and Dependency Injection
for Jakarta EE: Advanced Topics"].

Commit message:

Format Chapter 25 CDI Basics
Format the document to fixed-width of 72 characters
Change link macros to cross reference
Remove section anchors

Signed-off-by: hussainm <hussain.nm@cognizant.com>

src/main/asciidoc/cdi-basic/cdi-basic001.adoc, after:

== Getting Started

Contexts and Dependency Injection (CDI) enables your objects to have
their dependencies provided to them automatically, instead of creating
them or receiving them as parameters. CDI also manages the lifecycle of
those dependencies for you.

For example, consider the following servlet:

[source,java]
----
@WebServlet("/cdiservlet")
public class NewServlet extends HttpServlet {
    private Message message;

    @Override
    public void init() {
        message = new MessageB();
    }

    @Override
    public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
                  throws IOException {
        response.getWriter().write(message.get());
    }
}
----

This servlet needs an instance of an object that implements the
`Message` interface:

[source,java]
----
public interface Message {
    public String get();
}
----

The servlet creates itself an instance of the following object:

[source,java]
----
public class MessageB implements Message {
    public MessageB() { }

    @Override
    public String get() {
        return "message B";
    }
}
----

Using CDI, this servlet can declare its dependency on a `Message`
instance and have it injected automatically by the CDI runtime. The new
servlet code is the following:

[source,java]
----
@WebServlet("/cdiservlet")
public class NewServlet extends HttpServlet {
    @Inject private Message message;

    @Override
    public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
                  throws IOException {
        response.getWriter().write(message.get());
    }
}
----

The CDI runtime looks for classes that implement the `Message`
interface, finds the `MessageB` class, creates a new instance of it,
and injects it into the servlet at runtime. To manage the lifecycle of
the new instance, the CDI runtime needs to know what the scope of the
instance should be. In this example, the servlet only needs the
instance to process an HTTP request; the instance can then be garbage
collected. This is specified using the
`jakarta.enterprise.context.RequestScoped` annotation:

[source,java]
----
@RequestScoped
public class MessageB implements Message { ... }
----

For more information on scopes, see <<using-scopes>>.

The `MessageB` class is a CDI bean. CDI beans are classes that CDI can
instantiate, manage, and inject automatically to satisfy the
dependencies of other objects. Almost any Java class can be managed and
injected by CDI. For more information on beans, see <<about-beans>>. A
JAR or WAR file that contains a CDI bean is a bean archive. For more
information on packaging bean archives, see
<<configuring-a-cdi-application>> in this chapter and
<<packaging-cdi-applications>> in
xref:jakarta-contexts-and-dependency-injection-advanced-topics[xrefstyle=full].

In this example, `MessageB` is the only class that implements the
`Message` interface. If an application has more than one implementation
of an interface, CDI provides mechanisms that you can use to select
which implementation to inject. For more information, see
<<using-qualifiers>> in this chapter and
<<using-alternatives-in-cdi-applications>> in
xref:jakarta-contexts-and-dependency-injection-advanced-topics[xrefstyle=full].
