src/main/antora/modules/entbeans/pages/ejb-basicexamples/ejb-basicexamples004.adoc, before:

== A Web Service Example: helloservice

This example demonstrates a simple web service that generates a response based on information received from the client.
`HelloServiceBean` is a stateless session bean that implements a single method: `sayHello`.
This method matches the `sayHello` method invoked by the client described in xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_a_simple_xml_web_services_application_client[A Simple XML Web Services Application Client].

=== The Web Service Endpoint Implementation Class

`HelloServiceBean` is the endpoint implementation class, typically the primary programming artifact for enterprise bean web service endpoints.
The web service endpoint implementation class has the following requirements.

* The class must be annotated with either the `jakarta.jws.WebService` or the `jakarta.jws.WebServiceProvider` annotation.

* The implementing class may explicitly reference an SEI through the `endpointInterface` element of the `@WebService` annotation but is not required to do so.
If no `endpointInterface` is specified in `@WebService`, an SEI is implicitly defined for the implementing class.

* The business methods of the implementing class must be public and must not be declared `static` or `final`.

* Business methods that are exposed to web service clients must be annotated with `jakarta.jws.WebMethod`.

* Business methods that are exposed to web service clients must have Jakarta XML Binding-compatible parameters and return types.
See the list of Jakarta XML Binding default data type bindings at xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_types_supported_by_xml_web_services[Types Supported by XML Web Services].

* The implementing class must not be declared `final` and must not be `abstract`.

* The implementing class must have a default public constructor.

* The endpoint class must be annotated `@Stateless`.

* The implementing class must not define the `finalize` method.

* The implementing class may use the `jakarta.annotation.PostConstruct` or `jakarta.annotation.PreDestroy` annotations on its methods for lifecycle event callbacks.
+
The `@PostConstruct` method is called by the container before the implementing class begins responding to web service clients.
+
The `@PreDestroy` method is called by the container before the endpoint is removed from operation.

=== Stateless Session Bean Implementation Class

The `HelloServiceBean` class implements the `sayHello` method, which is annotated `@WebMethod`.
The source code for the `HelloServiceBean` class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.helloservice.ejb;

import jakarta.ejb.Stateless;
import jakarta.jws.WebMethod;
import jakarta.jws.WebService;

@Stateless
@WebService
public class HelloServiceBean {
    private final String message = "Hello, ";

    public void HelloServiceBean() {}

    @WebMethod
    public String sayHello(String name) {
        return message + name + ".";
    }
}
----

=== Running the helloservice Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, and deploy the `helloservice` example.
You can then use the Administration Console to test the web service endpoint methods.

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the helloservice Example Using NetBeans IDE

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_glassfish_server[Starting and Stopping GlassFish Server]).

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the *Open Project* dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/ejb
----

. Select the `helloservice` folder.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `helloservice` project and select *Build*.
+
This builds and packages the application into `helloservice.ear`, located in `_tut-install_/examples/ejb/helloservice/target/`, and deploys this EAR file to GlassFish Server.

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the helloservice Example Using Maven

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_glassfish_server[Starting and Stopping GlassFish Server]).

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/ejb/helloservice/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This compiles the source files and packages the application into an enterprise bean JAR file located at `_tut-install_/examples/ejb/helloservice/target/helloservice.jar`.
Then the enterprise bean JAR file is deployed to GlassFish Server.
+
Upon deployment, GlassFish Server generates additional artifacts required for web service invocation, including the WSDL file.

==== To Test the Service without a Client

The GlassFish Server Administration Console allows you to test the methods of a web service endpoint.
To test the `sayHello` method of `HelloServiceBean`, follow these steps.

. Open the *Administration Console* by opening the following URL in a
web browser:
+
----
http://localhost:4848/
----

. In the navigation tree, select the *Applications* node.

. In the *Applications* table, click the `helloservice` link.

. In the *Modules and Components* table, click the *View Endpoint* link.

. On the *Web Service Endpoint Information* page, click the *Tester* xref:
+
----
/HelloServiceBeanService/HelloServiceBean?Tester
----

. On the *Web Service Test Links* page, click the non-secure link (the one that specifies port 8080).

. On the *HelloServiceBeanService Web Service Tester* page, under *Methods*, enter a name as the parameter to the `sayHello` method.

. Click *sayHello*.
+
The sayHello Method invocation page opens.
Under Method returned, you'll see the response from the endpoint.

Commit message:

JETUT-132 warning text on links to previous tutorial versions

src/main/antora/modules/entbeans/pages/ejb-basicexamples/ejb-basicexamples004.adoc, after:

== A Web Service Example: helloservice

This example demonstrates a simple web service that generates a response based on information received from the client.
`HelloServiceBean` is a stateless session bean that implements a single method: `sayHello`.
This method matches the `sayHello` method invoked by the client described in "A Simple XML Web Services Application Client"
(xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_a_simple_xml_web_services_application_client[available in a previous version of the tutorial,window=_blank]&#x2197;).

=== The Web Service Endpoint Implementation Class

`HelloServiceBean` is the endpoint implementation class, typically the primary programming artifact for enterprise bean web service endpoints.
The web service endpoint implementation class has the following requirements.

* The class must be annotated with either the `jakarta.jws.WebService` or the `jakarta.jws.WebServiceProvider` annotation.

* The implementing class may explicitly reference an SEI through the `endpointInterface` element of the `@WebService` annotation but is not required to do so.
If no `endpointInterface` is specified in `@WebService`, an SEI is implicitly defined for the implementing class.

* The business methods of the implementing class must be public and must not be declared `static` or `final`.

* Business methods that are exposed to web service clients must be annotated with `jakarta.jws.WebMethod`.

* Business methods that are exposed to web service clients must have Jakarta XML Binding-compatible parameters and return types.
See the list of Jakarta XML Binding default data type bindings at "Types Supported by XML Web Services" (xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_types_supported_by_xml_web_services[available in a previous version of the tutorial,window=_blank]&#x2197;).

* The implementing class must not be declared `final` and must not be `abstract`.

* The implementing class must have a default public constructor.

* The endpoint class must be annotated `@Stateless`.

* The implementing class must not define the `finalize` method.

* The implementing class may use the `jakarta.annotation.PostConstruct` or `jakarta.annotation.PreDestroy` annotations on its methods for lifecycle event callbacks.
+
The `@PostConstruct` method is called by the container before the implementing class begins responding to web service clients.
+
The `@PreDestroy` method is called by the container before the endpoint is removed from operation.

=== Stateless Session Bean Implementation Class

The `HelloServiceBean` class implements the `sayHello` method, which is annotated `@WebMethod`.
The source code for the `HelloServiceBean` class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.helloservice.ejb;

import jakarta.ejb.Stateless;
import jakarta.jws.WebMethod;
import jakarta.jws.WebService;

@Stateless
@WebService
public class HelloServiceBean {
    private final String message = "Hello, ";

    public void HelloServiceBean() {}

    @WebMethod
    public String sayHello(String name) {
        return message + name + ".";
    }
}
----

=== Running the helloservice Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, and deploy the `helloservice` example.
You can then use the Administration Console to test the web service endpoint methods.

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the helloservice Example Using NetBeans IDE

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_glassfish_server[Starting and Stopping GlassFish Server]).

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the *Open Project* dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/ejb
----

. Select the `helloservice` folder.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `helloservice` project and select *Build*.
+
This builds and packages the application into `helloservice.ear`, located in `_tut-install_/examples/ejb/helloservice/target/`, and deploys this EAR file to GlassFish Server.

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the helloservice Example Using Maven

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_glassfish_server[Starting and Stopping GlassFish Server]).

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/ejb/helloservice/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This compiles the source files and packages the application into an enterprise bean JAR file located at `_tut-install_/examples/ejb/helloservice/target/helloservice.jar`.
Then the enterprise bean JAR file is deployed to GlassFish Server.
+
Upon deployment, GlassFish Server generates additional artifacts required for web service invocation, including the WSDL file.

==== To Test the Service without a Client

The GlassFish Server Administration Console allows you to test the methods of a web service endpoint.
To test the `sayHello` method of `HelloServiceBean`, follow these steps.

. Open the *Administration Console* by opening the following URL in a
web browser:
+
----
http://localhost:4848/
----

. In the navigation tree, select the *Applications* node.

. In the *Applications* table, click the `helloservice` link.

. In the *Modules and Components* table, click the *View Endpoint* link.

. On the *Web Service Endpoint Information* page, click the *Tester* xref:
+
----
/HelloServiceBeanService/HelloServiceBean?Tester
----

. On the *Web Service Test Links* page, click the non-secure link (the one that specifies port 8080).

. On the *HelloServiceBeanService Web Service Tester* page, under *Methods*, enter a name as the parameter to the `sayHello` method.

. Click *sayHello*.
+
The sayHello Method invocation page opens.
Under Method returned, you'll see the response from the endpoint.
