src/main/asciidoc/ejb-basicexamples/ejb-basicexamples003.adoc, before:

[[GIPVI]][[a-singleton-session-bean-example-counter]]

== A Singleton Session Bean Example: counter

The `counter` example demonstrates how to create a singleton session
bean.

[[GIPVC]][[creating-a-singleton-session-bean]]

=== Creating a Singleton Session Bean

The `javax.ejb.Singleton` annotation is used to specify that the
enterprise bean implementation class is a singleton session bean:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
public class SingletonBean { ... }
----

[[GIPPQ]][[initializing-singleton-session-beans]]

==== Initializing Singleton Session Beans

The Enterprise Bean container is responsible for determining when to initialize a
singleton session bean instance unless the singleton session bean
implementation class is annotated with the `javax.ejb.Startup`
annotation. In this case, sometimes called eager initialization, the EJB
container must initialize the singleton session bean upon application
startup. The singleton session bean is initialized before the EJB
container delivers client requests to any enterprise beans in the
application. This allows the singleton session bean to perform, for
example, application startup tasks.

The following singleton session bean stores the status of an application
and is eagerly initialized:

[source,java]
----
@Startup
@Singleton
public class StatusBean {
  private String status;

  @PostConstruct
  void init {
    status = "Ready";
  }
  ...
}
----

Sometimes multiple singleton session beans are used to initialize data
for an application and therefore must be initialized in a specific
order. In these cases, use the `javax.ejb.DependsOn` annotation to
declare the startup dependencies of the singleton session bean. The
`@DependsOn` annotation's `value` attribute is one or more strings that
specify the name of the target singleton session bean. If more than one
dependent singleton bean is specified in `@DependsOn`, the order in
which they are listed is not necessarily the order in which the EJB
container will initialize the target singleton session beans.

The following singleton session bean, `PrimaryBean`, should be started
up first:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
public class PrimaryBean { ... }
----

`SecondaryBean` depends on `PrimaryBean`:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@DependsOn("PrimaryBean")
public class SecondaryBean { ... }
----

This guarantees that the Enterprise Bean container will initialize `PrimaryBean`
before `SecondaryBean`.

The following singleton session bean, `TertiaryBean`, depends on
`PrimaryBean` and `SecondaryBean`:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@DependsOn({"PrimaryBean", "SecondaryBean"})
public class TertiaryBean { ... }
----

`SecondaryBean` explicitly requires `PrimaryBean` to be initialized
before it is initialized, through its own `@DependsOn` annotation. In
this case, the Enterprise Bean container will first initialize `PrimaryBean`, then
`SecondaryBean`, and finally `TertiaryBean`.

If, however, `SecondaryBean` did not explicitly depend on `PrimaryBean`,
the Enterprise Bean container may initialize either `PrimaryBean` or `SecondaryBean`
first. That is, the Enterprise Bean container could initialize the singletons in the
following order: `SecondaryBean`, `PrimaryBean`, `TertiaryBean`.

[[GIPSZ]][[managing-concurrent-access-in-a-singleton-session-bean]]

==== Managing Concurrent Access in a Singleton Session Bean

Singleton session beans are designed for concurrent access, situations
in which many clients need to access a single instance of a session bean
at the same time. A singleton's client needs only a reference to a
singleton in order to invoke any business methods exposed by the
singleton and doesn't need to worry about any other clients that may be
simultaneously invoking business methods on the same singleton.

When creating a singleton session bean, concurrent access to the
singleton's business methods can be controlled in two ways:
container-managed concurrency and bean-managed concurrency.

The `javax.ejb.ConcurrencyManagement` annotation is used to specify
container-managed or bean-managed concurrency for the singleton. With
`@ConcurrencyManagement`, a type attribute must be set to either
`javax.ejb.ConcurrencyManagementType.CONTAINER` or
`javax.ejb.ConcurrencyManagementType.BEAN`. If no
`@ConcurrencyManagement` annotation is present on the singleton
implementation class, the Enterprise Bean container default of container-managed
concurrency is used.

Container-Managed Concurrency

If a singleton uses container-managed concurrency, the Enterprise Bean container
controls client access to the business methods of the singleton. The
`javax.ejb.Lock` annotation and a `javax.ejb.LockType` type are used to
specify the access level of the singleton's business methods or
`@Timeout` methods. The `LockType` enumerated types are `READ` and
`WRITE`.

Annotate a singleton's business or timeout method with
`@Lock(LockType.READ)` if the method can be concurrently accessed, or
shared, with many clients. Annotate the business or timeout method with
`@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` if the singleton session bean should be locked
to other clients while a client is calling that method. Typically, the
`@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` annotation is used when clients are modifying
the state of the singleton.

Annotating a singleton class with `@Lock` specifies that all the
business methods and any timeout methods of the singleton will use the
specified lock type unless they explicitly set the lock type with a
method-level `@Lock` annotation. If no `@Lock` annotation is present on
the singleton class, the default lock type, `@Lock(LockType.WRITE)`, is
applied to all business and timeout methods.

The following example shows how to use the `@ConcurrencyManagement`,
`@Lock(LockType.READ)`, and `@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` annotations for a
singleton that uses container-managed concurrency.

Although by default singletons use container-managed concurrency, the
`@ConcurrencyManagement(CONTAINER)` annotation may be added at the class
level of the singleton to explicitly set the concurrency management
type:

[source,java]
----
@ConcurrencyManagement(ConcurrencyManagementType.CONTAINER) 
@Singleton
public class ExampleSingletonBean {
  private String state;

  @Lock(LockType.READ)
  public String getState() {
    return state;
  }

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  public void setState(String newState) {
    state = newState;
  }
}
----

The `getState` method can be accessed by many clients at the same time
because it is annotated with `@Lock(LockType.READ)`. When the `setState`
method is called, however, all the methods in `ExampleSingletonBean`
will be locked to other clients because `setState` is annotated with
`@Lock(LockType.WRITE)`. This prevents two clients from attempting to
simultaneously change the `state` variable of `ExampleSingletonBean`.

The `getData` and `getStatus` methods in the following singleton are of
type `READ`, and the `setStatus` method is of type `WRITE`:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@Lock(LockType.READ)
public class SharedSingletonBean {
  private String data;
  private String status;

  public String getData() {
    return data;
  }

  public String getStatus() {
    return status;
  }

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  public void setStatus(String newStatus) {
    status = newStatus;
  }
}
----

If a method is of locking type `WRITE`, client access to all the
singleton's methods is blocked until the current client finishes its
method call or an access timeout occurs. When an access timeout occurs,
the Enterprise Bean container throws a `javax.ejb.ConcurrentAccessTimeoutException`.
The `javax.ejb.AccessTimeout` annotation is used to specify the number
of milliseconds before an access timeout occurs. If added at the class
level of a singleton, `@AccessTimeout` specifies the access timeout
value for all methods in the singleton unless a method explicitly
overrides the default with its own `@AccessTimeout` annotation.

The `@AccessTimeout` annotation can be applied to both
`@Lock(LockType.READ)` and `@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` methods. The
`@AccessTimeout` annotation has one required element, `value`, and one
optional element, `unit`. By default, the `value` is specified in
milliseconds. To change the `value` unit, set `unit` to one of the
`java.util.concurrent.TimeUnit` constants: `NANOSECONDS`,
`MICROSECONDS`, `MILLISECONDS`, or `SECONDS`.

The following singleton has a default access timeout value of 120,000
milliseconds, or 2 minutes. The `doTediousOperation` method overrides
the default access timeout and sets the value to 360,000 milliseconds,
or 6 minutes:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@AccessTimeout(value=120000)
public class StatusSingletonBean {
  private String status;

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  public void setStatus(String new Status) {
    status = newStatus;
  }

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  @AccessTimeout(value=360000)
  public void doTediousOperation {
    ...
  }
}
----

The following singleton has a default access timeout value of 60
seconds, specified using the `TimeUnit.SECONDS` constant:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@AccessTimeout(value=60, unit=TimeUnit.SECONDS)
public class StatusSingletonBean { ... }
----

Bean-Managed Concurrency

Singletons that use bean-managed concurrency allow full concurrent
access to all the business and timeout methods in the singleton. The
developer of the singleton is responsible for ensuring that the state of
the singleton is synchronized across all clients. Developers who create
singletons with bean-managed concurrency are allowed to use the Java
programming language synchronization primitives, such as
`synchronization` and `volatile`, to prevent errors during concurrent
access.

Add a `@ConcurrencyManagement` annotation with the type set to
`ConcurrencyManagementType.BEAN` at the class level of the singleton to
specify bean-managed concurrency:

[source,java]
----
@ConcurrencyManagement(ConcurrencyManagementType.BEAN) 
@Singleton
public class AnotherSingletonBean { ... }
----

[[GIPVD]][[handling-errors-in-a-singleton-session-bean]]

==== Handling Errors in a Singleton Session Bean

If a singleton session bean encounters an error when initialized by the
Enterprise Bean container, that singleton instance will be destroyed.

Unlike other enterprise beans, once a singleton session bean instance is
initialized, it is not destroyed if the singleton's business or
lifecycle methods cause system exceptions. This ensures that the same
singleton instance is used throughout the application lifecycle.

[[GIPXL]][[the-architecture-of-the-counter-example]]

=== The Architecture of the counter Example

The `counter` example consists of a singleton session bean,
`CounterBean`, and a JavaServer Faces Facelets web front end.

`CounterBean` is a simple singleton with one method, `getHits`, that
returns an integer representing the number of times a web page has been
accessed. Here is the code of `CounterBean`:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.counter.ejb;

import jakarta.ejb.Singleton;

/**
 * CounterBean is a simple singleton session bean that records the number
 * of hits to a web page.
 */
@Singleton
public class CounterBean {
    private int hits = 1;

    // Increment and return the number of hits
    public int getHits() {
        return hits++;
    }
}
----

The `@Singleton` annotation marks `CounterBean` as a singleton session
bean. `CounterBean` uses a local, no-interface view.

`CounterBean` uses the Enterprise Bean container's default metadata values for
singletons to simplify the coding of the singleton implementation class.
There is no `@ConcurrencyManagement` annotation on the class, so the
default of container-managed concurrency access is applied. There is no
`@Lock` annotation on the class or business method, so the default of
`@Lock(WRITE)` is applied to the only business method, `getHits`.

The following version of `CounterBean` is functionally equivalent to the
preceding version:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.counter.ejb;

import jakarta.ejb.Singleton;
import jakarta.ejb.ConcurrencyManagement;
import static javax.ejb.ConcurrencyManagementType.CONTAINER;
import jakarta.ejb.Lock;
import jakarta.ejb.LockType.WRITE;

/**
 * CounterBean is a simple singleton session bean that records the number
 * of hits to a web page.
 */
@Singleton
@ConcurrencyManagement(CONTAINER)
public class CounterBean {
    private int hits = 1;

    // Increment and return the number of hits
    @Lock(WRITE)
    public int getHits() {
        return hits++;
    }
}
----

The web front end of `counter` consists of a JavaServer Faces managed
bean, `Count.java`, that is used by the Facelets XHTML files
`template.xhtml` and `index.xhtml`. The `Count` JavaServer Faces managed
bean obtains a reference to `CounterBean` through dependency injection.
`Count` defines a `hitCount` JavaBeans property. When the `getHitCount`
getter method is called from the XHTML files, `CounterBean`'s `getHits`
method is called to return the current number of page hits.

Here's the `Count` managed bean class:

[source,java]
----
@Named
@ConversationScoped
public class Count implements Serializable {
    @EJB
    private CounterBean counterBean;

    private int hitCount;

    public Count() {
        this.hitCount = 0;
    }

    public int getHitCount() {
        hitCount = counterBean.getHits();
        return hitCount;
    }

    public void setHitCount(int newHits) {
        this.hitCount = newHits;
    }
}
----

The `template.xhtml` and `index.xhtml` files are used to render a
Facelets view that displays the number of hits to that view. The
`index.xhtml` file uses an expression language statement,
`#{count.hitCount}`, to access the `hitCount` property of the `Count`
managed bean. Here is the content of `index.xhtml`:

[source,xml]
----
<html lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html">
    <ui:composition template="/template.xhtml">
        <ui:define name="title">
            This page has been accessed #{count.hitCount} time(s).
        </ui:define>
        <ui:define name="body">
            Hooray!
        </ui:define>
    </ui:composition>
</html>
----

[[GIPVL]][[running-the-counter-example]]

=== Running the counter Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and
run the `counter` example.

[[GIPXT]][[to-run-the-counter-example-using-netbeans-ide]]

==== To Run the counter Example Using NetBeans IDE

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  From the File menu, choose Open Project.
3.  In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb
----
4.  Select the `counter` folder.
5.  Click Open Project.
6.  In the Projects tab, right-click the `counter` project and select
Run.
+
A web browser will open the URL `http://localhost:8080/counter`, which
displays the number of hits.
7.  Reload the page to see the hit count increment.

[[GIPZW]][[to-run-the-counter-example-using-maven]]

==== To Run the counter Example Using Maven

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  In a terminal window, go to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb/counter/
----
3.  Enter the following command:
+
[source,java]
----
mvn install
----
+
This will build and deploy `counter` to your GlassFish Server instance.
4.  In a web browser, enter the following URL:
+
[source,java]
----
http://localhost:8080/counter
----
5.  Reload the page to see the hit count increment.

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/ejb-basicexamples/ejb-basicexamples003.adoc, after:

[[GIPVI]][[a-singleton-session-bean-example-counter]]

== A Singleton Session Bean Example: counter

The `counter` example demonstrates how to create a singleton session
bean.

[[GIPVC]][[creating-a-singleton-session-bean]]

=== Creating a Singleton Session Bean

The `jakarta.ejb.Singleton` annotation is used to specify that the
enterprise bean implementation class is a singleton session bean:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
public class SingletonBean { ... }
----

[[GIPPQ]][[initializing-singleton-session-beans]]

==== Initializing Singleton Session Beans

The Enterprise Bean container is responsible for determining when to initialize a
singleton session bean instance unless the singleton session bean
implementation class is annotated with the `jakarta.ejb.Startup`
annotation. In this case, sometimes called eager initialization, the EJB
container must initialize the singleton session bean upon application
startup. The singleton session bean is initialized before the EJB
container delivers client requests to any enterprise beans in the
application. This allows the singleton session bean to perform, for
example, application startup tasks.

The following singleton session bean stores the status of an application
and is eagerly initialized:

[source,java]
----
@Startup
@Singleton
public class StatusBean {
  private String status;

  @PostConstruct
  void init {
    status = "Ready";
  }
  ...
}
----

Sometimes multiple singleton session beans are used to initialize data
for an application and therefore must be initialized in a specific
order. In these cases, use the `jakarta.ejb.DependsOn` annotation to
declare the startup dependencies of the singleton session bean. The
`@DependsOn` annotation's `value` attribute is one or more strings that
specify the name of the target singleton session bean. If more than one
dependent singleton bean is specified in `@DependsOn`, the order in
which they are listed is not necessarily the order in which the EJB
container will initialize the target singleton session beans.

The following singleton session bean, `PrimaryBean`, should be started
up first:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
public class PrimaryBean { ... }
----

`SecondaryBean` depends on `PrimaryBean`:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@DependsOn("PrimaryBean")
public class SecondaryBean { ... }
----

This guarantees that the Enterprise Bean container will initialize `PrimaryBean`
before `SecondaryBean`.

The following singleton session bean, `TertiaryBean`, depends on
`PrimaryBean` and `SecondaryBean`:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@DependsOn({"PrimaryBean", "SecondaryBean"})
public class TertiaryBean { ... }
----

`SecondaryBean` explicitly requires `PrimaryBean` to be initialized
before it is initialized, through its own `@DependsOn` annotation. In
this case, the Enterprise Bean container will first initialize `PrimaryBean`, then
`SecondaryBean`, and finally `TertiaryBean`.

If, however, `SecondaryBean` did not explicitly depend on `PrimaryBean`,
the Enterprise Bean container may initialize either `PrimaryBean` or `SecondaryBean`
first. That is, the Enterprise Bean container could initialize the singletons in the
following order: `SecondaryBean`, `PrimaryBean`, `TertiaryBean`.

[[GIPSZ]][[managing-concurrent-access-in-a-singleton-session-bean]]

==== Managing Concurrent Access in a Singleton Session Bean

Singleton session beans are designed for concurrent access, situations
in which many clients need to access a single instance of a session bean
at the same time. A singleton's client needs only a reference to a
singleton in order to invoke any business methods exposed by the
singleton and doesn't need to worry about any other clients that may be
simultaneously invoking business methods on the same singleton.

When creating a singleton session bean, concurrent access to the
singleton's business methods can be controlled in two ways:
container-managed concurrency and bean-managed concurrency.

The `jakarta.ejb.ConcurrencyManagement` annotation is used to specify
container-managed or bean-managed concurrency for the singleton. With
`@ConcurrencyManagement`, a type attribute must be set to either
`jakarta.ejb.ConcurrencyManagementType.CONTAINER` or
`jakarta.ejb.ConcurrencyManagementType.BEAN`. If no
`@ConcurrencyManagement` annotation is present on the singleton
implementation class, the Enterprise Bean container default of container-managed
concurrency is used.

Container-Managed Concurrency

If a singleton uses container-managed concurrency, the Enterprise Bean container
controls client access to the business methods of the singleton. The
`jakarta.ejb.Lock` annotation and a `jakarta.ejb.LockType` type are used to
specify the access level of the singleton's business methods or
`@Timeout` methods. The `LockType` enumerated types are `READ` and
`WRITE`.

Annotate a singleton's business or timeout method with
`@Lock(LockType.READ)` if the method can be concurrently accessed, or
shared, with many clients. Annotate the business or timeout method with
`@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` if the singleton session bean should be locked
to other clients while a client is calling that method. Typically, the
`@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` annotation is used when clients are modifying
the state of the singleton.

Annotating a singleton class with `@Lock` specifies that all the
business methods and any timeout methods of the singleton will use the
specified lock type unless they explicitly set the lock type with a
method-level `@Lock` annotation. If no `@Lock` annotation is present on
the singleton class, the default lock type, `@Lock(LockType.WRITE)`, is
applied to all business and timeout methods.

The following example shows how to use the `@ConcurrencyManagement`,
`@Lock(LockType.READ)`, and `@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` annotations for a
singleton that uses container-managed concurrency.

Although by default singletons use container-managed concurrency, the
`@ConcurrencyManagement(CONTAINER)` annotation may be added at the class
level of the singleton to explicitly set the concurrency management
type:

[source,java]
----
@ConcurrencyManagement(ConcurrencyManagementType.CONTAINER) 
@Singleton
public class ExampleSingletonBean {
  private String state;

  @Lock(LockType.READ)
  public String getState() {
    return state;
  }

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  public void setState(String newState) {
    state = newState;
  }
}
----

The `getState` method can be accessed by many clients at the same time
because it is annotated with `@Lock(LockType.READ)`. When the `setState`
method is called, however, all the methods in `ExampleSingletonBean`
will be locked to other clients because `setState` is annotated with
`@Lock(LockType.WRITE)`. This prevents two clients from attempting to
simultaneously change the `state` variable of `ExampleSingletonBean`.

The `getData` and `getStatus` methods in the following singleton are of
type `READ`, and the `setStatus` method is of type `WRITE`:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@Lock(LockType.READ)
public class SharedSingletonBean {
  private String data;
  private String status;

  public String getData() {
    return data;
  }

  public String getStatus() {
    return status;
  }

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  public void setStatus(String newStatus) {
    status = newStatus;
  }
}
----

If a method is of locking type `WRITE`, client access to all the
singleton's methods is blocked until the current client finishes its
method call or an access timeout occurs. When an access timeout occurs,
the Enterprise Bean container throws a `jakarta.ejb.ConcurrentAccessTimeoutException`.
The `jakarta.ejb.AccessTimeout` annotation is used to specify the number
of milliseconds before an access timeout occurs. If added at the class
level of a singleton, `@AccessTimeout` specifies the access timeout
value for all methods in the singleton unless a method explicitly
overrides the default with its own `@AccessTimeout` annotation.

The `@AccessTimeout` annotation can be applied to both
`@Lock(LockType.READ)` and `@Lock(LockType.WRITE)` methods. The
`@AccessTimeout` annotation has one required element, `value`, and one
optional element, `unit`. By default, the `value` is specified in
milliseconds. To change the `value` unit, set `unit` to one of the
`java.util.concurrent.TimeUnit` constants: `NANOSECONDS`,
`MICROSECONDS`, `MILLISECONDS`, or `SECONDS`.

The following singleton has a default access timeout value of 120,000
milliseconds, or 2 minutes. The `doTediousOperation` method overrides
the default access timeout and sets the value to 360,000 milliseconds,
or 6 minutes:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@AccessTimeout(value=120000)
public class StatusSingletonBean {
  private String status;

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  public void setStatus(String new Status) {
    status = newStatus;
  }

  @Lock(LockType.WRITE)
  @AccessTimeout(value=360000)
  public void doTediousOperation {
    ...
  }
}
----

The following singleton has a default access timeout value of 60
seconds, specified using the `TimeUnit.SECONDS` constant:

[source,java]
----
@Singleton
@AccessTimeout(value=60, unit=TimeUnit.SECONDS)
public class StatusSingletonBean { ... }
----

Bean-Managed Concurrency

Singletons that use bean-managed concurrency allow full concurrent
access to all the business and timeout methods in the singleton. The
developer of the singleton is responsible for ensuring that the state of
the singleton is synchronized across all clients. Developers who create
singletons with bean-managed concurrency are allowed to use the Java
programming language synchronization primitives, such as
`synchronization` and `volatile`, to prevent errors during concurrent
access.

Add a `@ConcurrencyManagement` annotation with the type set to
`ConcurrencyManagementType.BEAN` at the class level of the singleton to
specify bean-managed concurrency:

[source,java]
----
@ConcurrencyManagement(ConcurrencyManagementType.BEAN) 
@Singleton
public class AnotherSingletonBean { ... }
----

[[GIPVD]][[handling-errors-in-a-singleton-session-bean]]

==== Handling Errors in a Singleton Session Bean

If a singleton session bean encounters an error when initialized by the
Enterprise Bean container, that singleton instance will be destroyed.

Unlike other enterprise beans, once a singleton session bean instance is
initialized, it is not destroyed if the singleton's business or
lifecycle methods cause system exceptions. This ensures that the same
singleton instance is used throughout the application lifecycle.

[[GIPXL]][[the-architecture-of-the-counter-example]]

=== The Architecture of the counter Example

The `counter` example consists of a singleton session bean,
`CounterBean`, and a JavaServer Faces Facelets web front end.

`CounterBean` is a simple singleton with one method, `getHits`, that
returns an integer representing the number of times a web page has been
accessed. Here is the code of `CounterBean`:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.counter.ejb;

import jakarta.ejb.Singleton;

/**
 * CounterBean is a simple singleton session bean that records the number
 * of hits to a web page.
 */
@Singleton
public class CounterBean {
    private int hits = 1;

    // Increment and return the number of hits
    public int getHits() {
        return hits++;
    }
}
----

The `@Singleton` annotation marks `CounterBean` as a singleton session
bean. `CounterBean` uses a local, no-interface view.

`CounterBean` uses the Enterprise Bean container's default metadata values for
singletons to simplify the coding of the singleton implementation class.
There is no `@ConcurrencyManagement` annotation on the class, so the
default of container-managed concurrency access is applied. There is no
`@Lock` annotation on the class or business method, so the default of
`@Lock(WRITE)` is applied to the only business method, `getHits`.

The following version of `CounterBean` is functionally equivalent to the
preceding version:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.counter.ejb;

import jakarta.ejb.Singleton;
import jakarta.ejb.ConcurrencyManagement;
import static jakarta.ejb.ConcurrencyManagementType.CONTAINER;
import jakarta.ejb.Lock;
import jakarta.ejb.LockType.WRITE;

/**
 * CounterBean is a simple singleton session bean that records the number
 * of hits to a web page.
 */
@Singleton
@ConcurrencyManagement(CONTAINER)
public class CounterBean {
    private int hits = 1;

    // Increment and return the number of hits
    @Lock(WRITE)
    public int getHits() {
        return hits++;
    }
}
----

The web front end of `counter` consists of a JavaServer Faces managed
bean, `Count.java`, that is used by the Facelets XHTML files
`template.xhtml` and `index.xhtml`. The `Count` JavaServer Faces managed
bean obtains a reference to `CounterBean` through dependency injection.
`Count` defines a `hitCount` JavaBeans property. When the `getHitCount`
getter method is called from the XHTML files, `CounterBean`'s `getHits`
method is called to return the current number of page hits.

Here's the `Count` managed bean class:

[source,java]
----
@Named
@ConversationScoped
public class Count implements Serializable {
    @EJB
    private CounterBean counterBean;

    private int hitCount;

    public Count() {
        this.hitCount = 0;
    }

    public int getHitCount() {
        hitCount = counterBean.getHits();
        return hitCount;
    }

    public void setHitCount(int newHits) {
        this.hitCount = newHits;
    }
}
----

The `template.xhtml` and `index.xhtml` files are used to render a
Facelets view that displays the number of hits to that view. The
`index.xhtml` file uses an expression language statement,
`#{count.hitCount}`, to access the `hitCount` property of the `Count`
managed bean. Here is the content of `index.xhtml`:

[source,xml]
----
<html lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html">
    <ui:composition template="/template.xhtml">
        <ui:define name="title">
            This page has been accessed #{count.hitCount} time(s).
        </ui:define>
        <ui:define name="body">
            Hooray!
        </ui:define>
    </ui:composition>
</html>
----

[[GIPVL]][[running-the-counter-example]]

=== Running the counter Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and
run the `counter` example.

[[GIPXT]][[to-run-the-counter-example-using-netbeans-ide]]

==== To Run the counter Example Using NetBeans IDE

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  From the File menu, choose Open Project.
3.  In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb
----
4.  Select the `counter` folder.
5.  Click Open Project.
6.  In the Projects tab, right-click the `counter` project and select
Run.
+
A web browser will open the URL `http://localhost:8080/counter`, which
displays the number of hits.
7.  Reload the page to see the hit count increment.

[[GIPZW]][[to-run-the-counter-example-using-maven]]

==== To Run the counter Example Using Maven

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  In a terminal window, go to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb/counter/
----
3.  Enter the following command:
+
[source,java]
----
mvn install
----
+
This will build and deploy `counter` to your GlassFish Server instance.
4.  In a web browser, enter the following URL:
+
[source,java]
----
http://localhost:8080/counter
----
5.  Reload the page to see the hit count increment.
