src/main/asciidoc/persistence-locking/persistence-locking002.adoc, before:

[[GKJIU]][[lock-modes]]

== Lock Modes

The application may increase the level of locking for an entity by
specifying the use of lock modes. Lock modes may be specified to
increase the level of optimistic locking or to request the use of
pessimistic locks.

The use of optimistic lock modes causes the persistence provider to
check the version attributes for entities that were read (but not
modified) during a transaction as well as for entities that were
updated.

The use of pessimistic lock modes specifies that the persistence
provider is to immediately acquire long-term read or write locks for the
database data corresponding to entity state.

You can set the lock mode for an entity operation by specifying one of
the lock modes defined in the `javax.persistence.LockModeType`
enumerated type, listed in link:#GKJIE[Table 45-1].

[[sthref183]][[GKJIE]]

*Table 45-1 Lock Modes for Concurrent Entity Access*

[width="75%",cols="25%,50%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Lock Mode* |*Description*
|`OPTIMISTIC` |Obtain an optimistic read lock for all entities with
version attributes.

|`OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` |Obtain an optimistic read lock for all
entities with version attributes, and increment the version attribute
value.

|`PESSIMISTIC_READ` a|
Immediately obtain a long-term read lock on the data to prevent the data
from being modified or deleted. Other transactions may read the data
while the lock is maintained, but may not modify or delete the data.

The persistence provider is permitted to obtain a database write lock
when a read lock was requested, but not vice versa.

|`PESSIMISTIC_WRITE` |Immediately obtain a long-term write lock on the
data to prevent the data from being read, modified, or deleted.

|`PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` |Immediately obtain a long-term lock on
the data to prevent the data from being modified or deleted, and
increment the version attribute of versioned entities.

|`READ` |A synonym for `OPTIMISTIC`. Use of `LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC` is
to be preferred for new applications.

|`WRITE` |A synonym for `OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT`. Use of
`LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` is to be preferred for new
applications.

|`NONE` |No additional locking will occur on the data in the database.
|=======================================================================


[[GKJIK]][[setting-the-lock-mode]]

=== Setting the Lock Mode

To specify the lock mode, use one of the following techniques:

1.  Call the `EntityManager.lock` method, passing in one of the lock
modes:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Person person = ...;
em.lock(person, LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC);
----
2.  Call one of the `EntityManager.find` methods that take the lock mode
as a parameter:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
String personPK = ...;
Person person = em.find(Person.class, personPK,
    LockModeType.PESSIMISTIC_WRITE);
----
3.  Call one of the `EntityManager.refresh` methods that take the lock
mode as a parameter:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
String personPK = ...;
Person person = em.find(Person.class, personPK);
...
em.refresh(person, LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT);
----
4.  Call the `Query.setLockMode` or `TypedQuery.setLockMode` method,
passing the lock mode as the parameter:
+
[source,java]
----
Query q = em.createQuery(...);
q.setLockMode(LockModeType.PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT);
----
5.  Add a `lockMode` element to the `@NamedQuery` annotation:
+
[source,java]
----
@NamedQuery(name="lockPersonQuery",
  query="SELECT p FROM Person p WHERE p.name LIKE :name",
  lockMode=PESSIMISTIC_READ)
----

[[GKJIL]][[using-pessimistic-locking]]

=== Using Pessimistic Locking

Versioned entities, as well as entities that do not have version
attributes, can be locked pessimistically.

To lock entities pessimistically, set the lock mode to
`PESSIMISTIC_READ`, `PESSIMISTIC_WRITE`, or
`PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT`.

If a pessimistic lock cannot be obtained on the database rows, and the
failure to lock the data results in a transaction rollback, a
`PessimisticLockException` is thrown. If a pessimistic lock cannot be
obtained, but the locking failure doesn't result in a transaction
rollback, a `LockTimeoutException` is thrown.

Pessimistically locking a versioned entity with
`PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` results in the version attribute being
incremented even if the entity data is unmodified. When pessimistically
locking a versioned entity, the persistence provider will perform the
version checks that occur during optimistic locking, and if the version
check fails, an `OptimisticLockException` will be thrown. An attempt to
lock a non-versioned entity with `PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` is not
portable and may result in a `PersistenceException` if the persistence
provider does not support optimistic locks for non-versioned entities.
Locking a versioned entity with `PESSIMISTIC_WRITE` results in the
version attribute being incremented if the transaction was successfully
committed.

[[GKJLQ]][[pessimistic-locking-timeouts]]

==== Pessimistic Locking Timeouts

Use the `javax.persistence.lock.timeout` property to specify the length
of time in milliseconds the persistence provider should wait to obtain a
lock on the database tables. If the time it takes to obtain a lock
exceeds the value of this property, a `LockTimeoutException` will be
thrown, but the current transaction will not be marked for rollback. If
you set this property to `0`, the persistence provider should throw a
`LockTimeoutException` if it cannot immediately obtain a lock.


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

Portable applications should not rely on the setting of
`javax.persistence.lock.timeout`, because the locking strategy and
underlying database may mean that the timeout value cannot be used. The
value of `javax.persistence.lock.timeout` is a hint, not a contract.

|=======================================================================


This property may be set programmatically by passing it to the
`EntityManager` methods that allow lock modes to be specified, the
`Query.setLockMode` and `TypedQuery.setLockMode` methods, the
`@NamedQuery` annotation, and the
`Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory` method. It may also be set as a
property in the `persistence.xml` deployment descriptor.

If `javax.persistence.lock.timeout` is set in multiple places, the value
will be determined in the following order:

1.  The argument to one of the `EntityManager` or `Query` methods
2.  The setting in the `@NamedQuery` annotation
3.  The argument to the `Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory` method
4.  The value in the `persistence.xml` deployment descriptor

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/persistence-locking/persistence-locking002.adoc, after:

[[GKJIU]][[lock-modes]]

== Lock Modes

The application may increase the level of locking for an entity by
specifying the use of lock modes. Lock modes may be specified to
increase the level of optimistic locking or to request the use of
pessimistic locks.

The use of optimistic lock modes causes the persistence provider to
check the version attributes for entities that were read (but not
modified) during a transaction as well as for entities that were
updated.

The use of pessimistic lock modes specifies that the persistence
provider is to immediately acquire long-term read or write locks for the
database data corresponding to entity state.

You can set the lock mode for an entity operation by specifying one of
the lock modes defined in the `jakarta.persistence.LockModeType`
enumerated type, listed in link:#GKJIE[Table 45-1].

[[sthref183]][[GKJIE]]

*Table 45-1 Lock Modes for Concurrent Entity Access*

[width="75%",cols="25%,50%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Lock Mode* |*Description*
|`OPTIMISTIC` |Obtain an optimistic read lock for all entities with
version attributes.

|`OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` |Obtain an optimistic read lock for all
entities with version attributes, and increment the version attribute
value.

|`PESSIMISTIC_READ` a|
Immediately obtain a long-term read lock on the data to prevent the data
from being modified or deleted. Other transactions may read the data
while the lock is maintained, but may not modify or delete the data.

The persistence provider is permitted to obtain a database write lock
when a read lock was requested, but not vice versa.

|`PESSIMISTIC_WRITE` |Immediately obtain a long-term write lock on the
data to prevent the data from being read, modified, or deleted.

|`PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` |Immediately obtain a long-term lock on
the data to prevent the data from being modified or deleted, and
increment the version attribute of versioned entities.

|`READ` |A synonym for `OPTIMISTIC`. Use of `LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC` is
to be preferred for new applications.

|`WRITE` |A synonym for `OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT`. Use of
`LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` is to be preferred for new
applications.

|`NONE` |No additional locking will occur on the data in the database.
|=======================================================================


[[GKJIK]][[setting-the-lock-mode]]

=== Setting the Lock Mode

To specify the lock mode, use one of the following techniques:

1.  Call the `EntityManager.lock` method, passing in one of the lock
modes:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Person person = ...;
em.lock(person, LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC);
----
2.  Call one of the `EntityManager.find` methods that take the lock mode
as a parameter:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
String personPK = ...;
Person person = em.find(Person.class, personPK,
    LockModeType.PESSIMISTIC_WRITE);
----
3.  Call one of the `EntityManager.refresh` methods that take the lock
mode as a parameter:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
String personPK = ...;
Person person = em.find(Person.class, personPK);
...
em.refresh(person, LockModeType.OPTIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT);
----
4.  Call the `Query.setLockMode` or `TypedQuery.setLockMode` method,
passing the lock mode as the parameter:
+
[source,java]
----
Query q = em.createQuery(...);
q.setLockMode(LockModeType.PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT);
----
5.  Add a `lockMode` element to the `@NamedQuery` annotation:
+
[source,java]
----
@NamedQuery(name="lockPersonQuery",
  query="SELECT p FROM Person p WHERE p.name LIKE :name",
  lockMode=PESSIMISTIC_READ)
----

[[GKJIL]][[using-pessimistic-locking]]

=== Using Pessimistic Locking

Versioned entities, as well as entities that do not have version
attributes, can be locked pessimistically.

To lock entities pessimistically, set the lock mode to
`PESSIMISTIC_READ`, `PESSIMISTIC_WRITE`, or
`PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT`.

If a pessimistic lock cannot be obtained on the database rows, and the
failure to lock the data results in a transaction rollback, a
`PessimisticLockException` is thrown. If a pessimistic lock cannot be
obtained, but the locking failure doesn't result in a transaction
rollback, a `LockTimeoutException` is thrown.

Pessimistically locking a versioned entity with
`PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` results in the version attribute being
incremented even if the entity data is unmodified. When pessimistically
locking a versioned entity, the persistence provider will perform the
version checks that occur during optimistic locking, and if the version
check fails, an `OptimisticLockException` will be thrown. An attempt to
lock a non-versioned entity with `PESSIMISTIC_FORCE_INCREMENT` is not
portable and may result in a `PersistenceException` if the persistence
provider does not support optimistic locks for non-versioned entities.
Locking a versioned entity with `PESSIMISTIC_WRITE` results in the
version attribute being incremented if the transaction was successfully
committed.

[[GKJLQ]][[pessimistic-locking-timeouts]]

==== Pessimistic Locking Timeouts

Use the `jakarta.persistence.lock.timeout` property to specify the length
of time in milliseconds the persistence provider should wait to obtain a
lock on the database tables. If the time it takes to obtain a lock
exceeds the value of this property, a `LockTimeoutException` will be
thrown, but the current transaction will not be marked for rollback. If
you set this property to `0`, the persistence provider should throw a
`LockTimeoutException` if it cannot immediately obtain a lock.


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

Portable applications should not rely on the setting of
`jakarta.persistence.lock.timeout`, because the locking strategy and
underlying database may mean that the timeout value cannot be used. The
value of `jakarta.persistence.lock.timeout` is a hint, not a contract.

|=======================================================================


This property may be set programmatically by passing it to the
`EntityManager` methods that allow lock modes to be specified, the
`Query.setLockMode` and `TypedQuery.setLockMode` methods, the
`@NamedQuery` annotation, and the
`Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory` method. It may also be set as a
property in the `persistence.xml` deployment descriptor.

If `jakarta.persistence.lock.timeout` is set in multiple places, the value
will be determined in the following order:

1.  The argument to one of the `EntityManager` or `Query` methods
2.  The setting in the `@NamedQuery` annotation
3.  The argument to the `Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory` method
4.  The value in the `persistence.xml` deployment descriptor
