src/main/asciidoc/usingexamples/usingexamples008.adoc, before:

[[GIQWR]][[getting-the-latest-updates-to-the-tutorial]]

== Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial

Check for any updates to the tutorial by using the Update Tool included
with the Jakarta EE SDK.

[[GIQYK]][[to-update-the-tutorial-using-netbeans-ide]]

=== To Update the Tutorial Using NetBeans IDE

1.  Open the *Services* tab in NetBeans IDE and expand *Servers*.
2.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select *View Domain
Update Center* to display the Update Tool.
3.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
4.  Look for updates to the Jakarta EE Tutorial (jakartaee-tutorial)
package.
5.  If there is an updated version of the Tutorial, select *Jakarta EE
Tutorial* (`jakartaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.

[[sthref18]][[to-update-the-tutorial-using-the-command-line]]

=== To Update the Tutorial Using the Command Line

1.  Open a terminal window and enter the following command to display
the Update Tool:
+
[source,java]
----
updatetool
----
2.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
3.  Look for updates to the Jakarta EE Tutorial (`jakartaee-tutorial`)
package.
4.  If there is an updated version of the tutorial, select *Jakarta EE
Tutorial* (`jakartaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.

Commit message:

Format Chapter 2 Using Examples
Update Jakarta 8 references to 9
Format the document to fixed-width of 72 characters
Change link macros to cross reference
Remove section anchors
Remove "Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial" section

Signed-off-by: hussainm <hussain.nm@cognizant.com>

src/main/asciidoc/usingexamples/usingexamples008.adoc, after:

////
[NOTE]
Glassfish no longer ships with Update Tool
////
////
== Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial

Check for any updates to the tutorial by using the Update Tool included
with the Jakarta EE SDK.

=== To Update the Tutorial Using NetBeans IDE

1.  Open the *Services* tab in NetBeans IDE and expand *Servers*.
2.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select 
*View Domain Update Center* to display the Update Tool.
3.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
4.  Look for updates to the Jakarta EE Tutorial (jakartaee-tutorial)
package.
5.  If there is an updated version of the Tutorial, select *Jakarta EE
Tutorial* (`jakartaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.

=== To Update the Tutorial Using the Command Line

1.  Open a terminal window and enter the following command to display
the Update Tool:
+
```
updatetool
```
2.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
3.  Look for updates to the Jakarta EE Tutorial (`jakartaee-tutorial`)
package.
4.  If there is an updated version of the tutorial, select *Jakarta EE
Tutorial* (`jakartaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.

////
