src/main/asciidoc/usingexamples/usingexamples009.adoc, before:

[[BNADL]][[debugging-jakarta-ee-applications]]

== Debugging Jakarta EE Applications

This section explains how to determine what is causing an error in your
application deployment or execution.

[[BNADM]][[using-the-server-log]]

=== Using the Server Log

One way to debug applications is to look at the server log in
domain-dir`/logs/server.log`. The log contains output from GlassFish
Server and your applications. You can log messages from any Java class
in your application with `System.out.println` and the Java Logging APIs
(documented at
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/logging/index.html[`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/logging/index.html`])
and from web components with the `ServletContext.log` method.

If you use NetBeans IDE, logging output appears in the Output window as
well as the server log.

If you start GlassFish Server with the `--verbose` flag, all logging and
debugging output will appear on the terminal window or command prompt
and the server log. If you start GlassFish Server in the background,
debugging information is available only in the log. You can view the
server log with a text editor or with the Administration Console log
viewer.

[[GJSGH]][[to-use-the-administration-console-log-viewer]]

==== To Use the Administration Console Log Viewer

1.  Select the *GlassFish Server* node.
2.  Click *View Log Files*.
+
The log viewer opens and displays the last 40 entries.
3.  To display other entries, follow these steps:
a.  Click *Modify Search*.
b.  Specify any constraints on the entries you want to see.
c.  Click Search at the top of the log viewer.

[[BNADN]][[using-a-debugger]]

=== Using a Debugger

GlassFish Server supports the Java Platform Debugger Architecture
(JPDA). With JPDA, you can configure GlassFish Server to communicate
debugging information using a socket.

[[GJQWL]][[to-debug-an-application-using-a-debugger]]

==== To Debug an Application Using a Debugger

1.  Follow these steps to enable debugging in GlassFish Server using the
Administration Console:
a.  Expand the *Configurations* node, then expand the *server-config* node.
b.  Select the *JVM Settings* node. The default debug options are set to:
+
[source,java]
----
-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=9009
----
+
As you can see, the default debugger socket port is 9009. You can change
it to a port not in use by GlassFish Server or another service.
c.  Select the *Debug Enabled* check box.
d.  Click *Save*.
2.  Stop GlassFish Server and then restart it.

Commit message:

Revising the new Apache Netbeans and Eclipse Glassfish terms at usingexamples009
Signed-off-by: Gabriel Bussolo <contact@gabrielbussolo.dev>

src/main/asciidoc/usingexamples/usingexamples009.adoc, after:

[[BNADL]][[debugging-jakarta-ee-applications]]

== Debugging Jakarta EE Applications

This section explains how to determine what is causing an error in your
application deployment or execution.

[[BNADM]][[using-the-server-log]]

=== Using the Server Log

One way to debug applications is to look at the server log in
domain-dir`/logs/server.log`. The log contains output from Eclipse GlassFish
Server and your applications. You can log messages from any Java class
in your application with `System.out.println` and the Java Logging APIs
(documented at
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/logging/index.html[`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/logging/index.html`])
and from web components with the `ServletContext.log` method.

If you use Apache NetBeans IDE, logging output appears in the Output window as
well as the server log.

If you start Eclipse GlassFish Server with the `--verbose` flag, all logging and
debugging output will appear on the terminal window or command prompt
and the server log. If you start Eclipse GlassFish Server in the background,
debugging information is available only in the log. You can view the
server log with a text editor or with the Administration Console log
viewer.

[[GJSGH]][[to-use-the-administration-console-log-viewer]]

==== To Use the Administration Console Log Viewer

1.  Select the *GlassFish Server* node.
2.  Click *View Log Files*.
+
The log viewer opens and displays the last 40 entries.
3.  To display other entries, follow these steps:
a.  Click *Modify Search*.
b.  Specify any constraints on the entries you want to see.
c.  Click Search at the top of the log viewer.

[[BNADN]][[using-a-debugger]]

=== Using a Debugger

Eclipse GlassFish Server supports the Java Platform Debugger Architecture
(JPDA). With JPDA, you can configure Eclipse GlassFish Server to communicate
debugging information using a socket.

[[GJQWL]][[to-debug-an-application-using-a-debugger]]

==== To Debug an Application Using a Debugger

1.  Follow these steps to enable debugging in Eclipse GlassFish Server using the
Administration Console:
a.  Expand the *Configurations* node, then expand the *server-config* node.
b.  Select the *JVM Settings* node. The default debug options are set to:
+
[source,java]
----
-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=9009
----
+
As you can see, the default debugger socket port is 9009. You can change
it to a port not in use by Eclipse GlassFish Server or another service.
c.  Select the *Debug Enabled* check box.
d.  Click *Save*.
2.  Stop Eclipse GlassFish Server and then restart it.
