src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/webapp/webapp001.adoc, before:

== Web Applications

A web application, also known as a web app, is a software application that runs on one or more web servers.
It is typically accessed through a web browser over a network, such as the Internet.
The advantage over desktop and mobile applications is being platform-independent, as it can be accessed and used on different devices.
Web applications are of the following types:

Presentation-oriented::
A presentation-oriented web application (also called a "website") generates dynamic web pages in response to HTTP requests.
The response is usually represented as a HTML document along with assets, such as Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript (JS) and images.
Presentation-oriented applications are often directly used by humans.
Development of presentation-oriented web applications is covered in xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_building_web_services_with_jakarta_xml_web_services[Building Web Services with Jakarta XML Web Services] through xref:servlets/servlets.adoc#_jakarta_servlet_technology[Jakarta Servlet Technology]

Service-oriented::
A service-oriented web application (also called a "service") generates dynamic data structures in response to HTTP requests.
The response is usually represented as a JSON object or as a XML document or even as plain text.
Service-oriented applications are often directly used by presentation-oriented web applications or other service-oriented applications.
Development of service-oriented web applications is covered in xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_building_web_services_with_jakarta_xml_web_services[Building Web Services with Jakarta XML Web Services]

In the Jakarta EE platform, web applications are represented by web components as seen in xref:webapp/webapp.adoc#_jakarta_web_application_request_handling[Jakarta Web Application Request Handling].
A web component can be represented by Jakarta Servlet, Jakarta Faces or Jakarta REST.

[[_jakarta_web_application_request_handling]]
.Jakarta Web Application Request Handling
image::common:jakartaeett_dt_013.svg["Diagram of web application request handling. Clients and servlets communicate using HttpServletRequest and HttpServletResponse."]

. The client sends an HTTP request to the web server.
. The web server module that supports Jakarta Servlet-based web components is called a servlet container.
. The servlet container converts the HTTP request into an `HttpServletRequest` object and prepares the `HttpServletResponse` object.
. These objects are delivered to a web component, which can interact with beans or a database to generate dynamic content.
. The web component can fill the `HttpServletResponse` object with the generated dynamic content or can pass the object to another web component to fill it.
. The servlet container ultimately converts the `HttpServletResponse` object to an HTTP response and the web server returns it to the client.

Jakarta Servlet can be used to build both presentation and service-oriented web applications.
It intends to reduce the boilerplate code needed to convert the HTTP request into a Java object and to offer a Java object as a HTTP response, and to manage all the lifecycle around them.

Jakarta Faces is a component-based MVC framework that can be executed on a servlet container and act as a presentation-oriented web application.
It intends to reduce the boilerplate code needed to collect the request parameters, convert and validate them, update bean properties with them, invoke bean methods, and generate HTML output as response.
It is designed to run in servlet and non-servlet environments such as a portlet container.footnote:[The portlet container is defined in https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=286[JSR 286 Portlet specification] which is not part of Jakarta EE.]

Jakarta REST is a RESTful web service framework that can be executed on a servlet container and act as a service-oriented web application. 
It intends to reduce the boilerplate code needed to convert the request parameters to a bean and further convert it to the desired response such as JSON or XML.
It is designed to run in servlet and non-servlet environments such as a microservice.footnote:[Some frameworks use Jakarta REST with non-blocking server such as Eclipse https://vertx.io[Vert.X] or https://netty.io[Netty].]

A servlet container can be part of a Jakarta runtime such as an application server.
Certain aspects of web component behavior can be configured when the web application is installed, or deployed, to a servlet container.
The configuration information can be specified using annotations or can be maintained in a XML file called a deployment descriptor.
A deployment descriptor file must comply to the schema described in the specification associated with the web component.
When the same configuration is specified using annotations and in a deployment descriptor file, then the configuration in the deployment descriptor file will always have precedence.

This chapter gives a brief overview of the activities involved in developing Jakarta Servlet-based web applications.
It explains how to compile, package, deploy, and run Jakarta Servlet-based web applications in a servlet container.

Commit message:

JETUT-132 warning text on links to previous tutorial versions

src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/webapp/webapp001.adoc, after:

== Web Applications

A web application, also known as a web app, is a software application that runs on one or more web servers.
It is typically accessed through a web browser over a network, such as the Internet.
The advantage over desktop and mobile applications is being platform-independent, as it can be accessed and used on different devices.
Web applications are of the following types:

Presentation-oriented::
A presentation-oriented web application (also called a "website") generates dynamic web pages in response to HTTP requests.
The response is usually represented as a HTML document along with assets, such as Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript (JS) and images.
Presentation-oriented applications are often directly used by humans.
Development of presentation-oriented web applications is covered in "Building Web Services with Jakarta XML Web Services" (xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_building_web_services_with_jakarta_xml_web_services[available in a previous version of the tutorial,window=_blank]&#x2197;) through xref:servlets/servlets.adoc#_jakarta_servlet_technology[Jakarta Servlet Technology]

Service-oriented::
A service-oriented web application (also called a "service") generates dynamic data structures in response to HTTP requests.
The response is usually represented as a JSON object or as a XML document or even as plain text.
Service-oriented applications are often directly used by presentation-oriented web applications or other service-oriented applications.
Development of service-oriented web applications is covered in "Building Web Services with Jakarta XML Web Services" (xref:9.1@websvcs:jaxws/jaxws.adoc#_building_web_services_with_jakarta_xml_web_services[available in a previous version of the tutorial,window=_blank]&#x2197;)

In the Jakarta EE platform, web applications are represented by web components as seen in xref:webapp/webapp.adoc#_jakarta_web_application_request_handling[Jakarta Web Application Request Handling].
A web component can be represented by Jakarta Servlet, Jakarta Faces or Jakarta REST.

[[_jakarta_web_application_request_handling]]
.Jakarta Web Application Request Handling
image::common:jakartaeett_dt_013.svg["Diagram of web application request handling. Clients and servlets communicate using HttpServletRequest and HttpServletResponse."]

. The client sends an HTTP request to the web server.
. The web server module that supports Jakarta Servlet-based web components is called a servlet container.
. The servlet container converts the HTTP request into an `HttpServletRequest` object and prepares the `HttpServletResponse` object.
. These objects are delivered to a web component, which can interact with beans or a database to generate dynamic content.
. The web component can fill the `HttpServletResponse` object with the generated dynamic content or can pass the object to another web component to fill it.
. The servlet container ultimately converts the `HttpServletResponse` object to an HTTP response and the web server returns it to the client.

Jakarta Servlet can be used to build both presentation and service-oriented web applications.
It intends to reduce the boilerplate code needed to convert the HTTP request into a Java object and to offer a Java object as a HTTP response, and to manage all the lifecycle around them.

Jakarta Faces is a component-based MVC framework that can be executed on a servlet container and act as a presentation-oriented web application.
It intends to reduce the boilerplate code needed to collect the request parameters, convert and validate them, update bean properties with them, invoke bean methods, and generate HTML output as response.
It is designed to run in servlet and non-servlet environments such as a portlet container.footnote:[The portlet container is defined in https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=286[JSR 286 Portlet specification] which is not part of Jakarta EE.]

Jakarta REST is a RESTful web service framework that can be executed on a servlet container and act as a service-oriented web application. 
It intends to reduce the boilerplate code needed to convert the request parameters to a bean and further convert it to the desired response such as JSON or XML.
It is designed to run in servlet and non-servlet environments such as a microservice.footnote:[Some frameworks use Jakarta REST with non-blocking server such as Eclipse https://vertx.io[Vert.X] or https://netty.io[Netty].]

A servlet container can be part of a Jakarta runtime such as an application server.
Certain aspects of web component behavior can be configured when the web application is installed, or deployed, to a servlet container.
The configuration information can be specified using annotations or can be maintained in a XML file called a deployment descriptor.
A deployment descriptor file must comply to the schema described in the specification associated with the web component.
When the same configuration is specified using annotations and in a deployment descriptor file, then the configuration in the deployment descriptor file will always have precedence.

This chapter gives a brief overview of the activities involved in developing Jakarta Servlet-based web applications.
It explains how to compile, package, deploy, and run Jakarta Servlet-based web applications in a servlet container.
