src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/webapp/webapp004.adoc, before:

== Hello World Web Application Using Jakarta Servlet

The `hello-servlet` application is a web application that uses Jakarta Servlet take a name as an HTTP request parameter, generate the greeting and return it as an HTTP response.
As a service-oriented web application, the response is in this minimal example represented as plain text.

The source code for this application is in the `_jakartaee-examples_/tutorial/web/servlet/hello-servlet/` directory.

=== The Servlet

In a typical Jakarta Servlet-based web application, the class must extend `jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet` and override one of the `doXxx()` methods where `Xxx` represents the HTTP method of interest.
Such a class is in the Jakarta Servlet world called a _Servlet_.

For this Hello World web application, the `src/main/java/jakarta/tutorial/web/servlet/Greeting.java` servlet listens on HTTP GET requests and extracts the `name` request parameter as input and creates the `greeting` as output.

[source,java]
----
package jakarta.tutorial.web.servlet;

import java.io.IOException;

import jakarta.servlet.ServletException;
import jakarta.servlet.annotation.WebServlet;
import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;

@WebServlet("/greeting")
public class Greeting extends HttpServlet {

    @Override
    public void doGet
        (HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
            throws ServletException, IOException
    {
        var name = request.getParameter("name");

        if (name == null || name.isBlank()) {
            response.sendError(HttpServletResponse.SC_BAD_REQUEST);
            return;
        }

        var greeting = "Hello, " + name + "!";

        response.setContentType("text/plain");
        response.getWriter().write(greeting);
    }
}
----

=== Mapping URLs to Web Components

When the servlet container receives a request, it must determine which web component should handle the request.
The servlet container does so by mapping the URL contained in the request to a web component.
A URL contains the context path and, optionally, a URL pattern:

----
http(s)://host:port/context-path[/url-pattern]
----

You can set the URL pattern for a servlet by using the `@WebServlet` annotation in the servlet source file or by using `<servlet-mapping>` entry in the Jakarta Servlet deployment descriptor file, the `src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml`.
In the `Greeting` servlet example the `@WebServlet` annotation indicates that the URL pattern is `/greeting`.
Therefore, when the servlet is deployed to a local server listening on `http://localhost:8080` with the context path set to `hello-servlet`, it is accessed with the following URL:

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting
----

The Hello World example will return a HTTP 400 error as response indicating a 'Bad Request'.
When specifying the name as a request parameter in the following URL:

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting?name=Duke
----

Then it will return the response `Hello, Duke!`.

=== Running the `hello-servlet` example application

Build and deploy as instructed in <<Building, Deploying and Running The Example Projects>>.

In a web browser, open the following URL:

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting?name=Duke
----

It will return the response `Hello, Duke!`.
You can edit the `name` parameter into something else to get a different response.

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting?name=Joe
----

This will return the response `Hello, Joe!`.

Commit message:

JETUT-147 LinkChecker recommendations for new webapp content

src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/webapp/webapp004.adoc, after:

== Hello World Web Application Using Jakarta Servlet

The `hello-servlet` application is a web application that uses Jakarta Servlet take a name as an HTTP request parameter, generate the greeting and return it as an HTTP response.
As a service-oriented web application, the response is in this minimal example represented as plain text.

The source code for this application is in the `_jakartaee-examples_/tutorial/web/servlet/hello-servlet/` directory.

=== The Servlet

In a typical Jakarta Servlet-based web application, the class must extend `jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet` and override one of the `doXxx()` methods where `Xxx` represents the HTTP method of interest.
Such a class is in the Jakarta Servlet world called a _Servlet_.

For this Hello World web application, the `src/main/java/jakarta/tutorial/web/servlet/Greeting.java` servlet listens on HTTP GET requests and extracts the `name` request parameter as input and creates the `greeting` as output.

[source,java]
----
package jakarta.tutorial.web.servlet;

import java.io.IOException;

import jakarta.servlet.ServletException;
import jakarta.servlet.annotation.WebServlet;
import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
import jakarta.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;

@WebServlet("/greeting")
public class Greeting extends HttpServlet {

    @Override
    public void doGet
        (HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
            throws ServletException, IOException
    {
        var name = request.getParameter("name");

        if (name == null || name.isBlank()) {
            response.sendError(HttpServletResponse.SC_BAD_REQUEST);
            return;
        }

        var greeting = "Hello, " + name + "!";

        response.setContentType("text/plain");
        response.getWriter().write(greeting);
    }
}
----

=== Mapping URLs to Web Components

When the servlet container receives a request, it must determine which web component should handle the request.
The servlet container does so by mapping the URL contained in the request to a web component.
A URL contains the context path and, optionally, a URL pattern:

----
http(s)://host:port/context-path[/url-pattern]
----

You can set the URL pattern for a servlet by using the `@WebServlet` annotation in the servlet source file or by using `<servlet-mapping>` entry in the Jakarta Servlet deployment descriptor file, the `src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml`.
In the `Greeting` servlet example the `@WebServlet` annotation indicates that the URL pattern is `/greeting`.
Therefore, when the servlet is deployed to a local server listening on `http://localhost:8080` with the context path set to `hello-servlet`, it is accessed with the following URL:

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting
----

The Hello World example will return a HTTP 400 error as response indicating a 'Bad Request'.
When specifying the name as a request parameter in the following URL:

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting?name=Duke
----

Then it will return the response `Hello, Duke!`.

=== Running the `hello-servlet` example application

Build and deploy as instructed in xref:webapp/webapp.adoc#_building_deploying_and_running_the_example_projects[Building, Deploying and Running The Example Projects].

In a web browser, open the following URL:

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting?name=Duke
----

It will return the response `Hello, Duke!`.
You can edit the `name` parameter into something else to get a different response.

----
http://localhost:8080/hello-servlet/greeting?name=Joe
----

This will return the response `Hello, Joe!`.
