src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

[preface]
= Preface

This tutorial is a guide to developing enterprise applications for the Jakarta EE 9 Platform, using Eclipse GlassFish Server.

Eclipse GlassFish Server is the leading open-source and open-community platform for building and deploying next-generation applications and services.
Eclipse GlassFish Server, developed by the Eclipse GlassFish project open-source community at https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.glassfish[^], is a compatible implementation of the Jakarta EE 9 platform specification.
This lightweight, flexible, and open-source application server enables organizations not only to leverage the new capabilities introduced within the Jakarta EE 9 specification, but also to add to their existing capabilities through a faster and more streamlined development and deployment cycle.
Eclipse GlassFish Server is hereafter referred to as GlassFish Server.

== Audience

This tutorial is intended for programmers interested in developing and deploying Jakarta EE 9 applications.
It covers the technologies comprising the Jakarta EE platform and describes how to develop Jakarta EE components and deploy them on the Eclipse GlassFish.

== Before You Read This Book

Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a good knowledge of the Java programming language.
A good way to get to that point is to work through the Java(TM) Tutorials https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/index.html[^].

== Related Documentation

The GlassFish Server documentation set describes deployment planning and system installation.
To obtain the GlassFish Server documentation, go to https://glassfish.org/docs[^].

The Jakarta EE 9 API specification can be viewed at https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/9/[^].

Additionally, the Jakarta EE Specifications at https://jakarta.ee/specifications[^] might be useful.

For information about creating enterprise applications in the NetBeans Integrated Development Environment (IDE), see https://netbeans.apache.org/kb/[^].

For information about Apache Derby for use with GlassFish Server, see https://db.apache.org/derby/docs/10.14/adminguide/[^].

The GlassFish Samples project is a collection of sample applications that demonstrate a broad range of Jakarta EE technologies.
The GlassFish Samples are available from the GlassFish Samples project page at https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish-samples/[^].

== Conventions

The following table describes the typographic conventions that are used in this book.

[width="99%",cols="20%,38%,37%"]
|===
|Convention |Meaning |Example

|*Boldface* |Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements associated with an action or terms defined in text. |From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

A *cache* is a copy that is stored locally.

|`Monospace` |Monospace type indicates the names of files and directories, commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text that appears on the screen, or text that you enter. |Edit your `.login` file.

Use `ls -a` to list all files.

`_machine_name_% you have mail.`

|_Italic_ |Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder variables for which you supply particular values. |Read Chapter 6 in the _User's Guide_.

Do _not_ save the file.

The command to remove a file is `rm _filename_`.
|===

== Default Paths and File Names

The following table describes the default paths and file names that are
used in this book.

[width="99%",cols="20%,38%,38%"]
|===
|Placeholder |Description |Default Value

|`_as-install_` |Represents the base installation directory for GlassFish Server. | Installations on the Solaris operating system, Linux operating system, and Mac operating system:

`_user's-home-directory_/glassfish6/glassfish`

Windows, all installations:

`_SystemDrive_:\glassfish6\glassfish`

|`_as-install-parent_` |Represents the parent of the base installation directory for GlassFish Server. |Installations on the Solaris operating system, Linux operating system, and Mac operating system:

`_user's-home-directory_/glassfish6`

Windows, all installations:

`_SystemDrive_:\glassfish6`

|`_tut-install_` |Represents the base installation directory for the Jakarta EE Tutorial after you download and extract it. |`_user's-home-directory_/jakartaee-tutorial`

|`_domain-dir_` |Represents the directory in which a domain's configuration is stored. |`_as-install_/domains/domain1`
|===

Commit message:

update paths to examples, tut-install -> jakartaee-examples #53

src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

[preface]
= Preface

This tutorial is a guide to developing enterprise applications for the Jakarta EE 9 Platform, using Eclipse GlassFish Server.

Eclipse GlassFish Server is the leading open-source and open-community platform for building and deploying next-generation applications and services.
Eclipse GlassFish Server, developed by the Eclipse GlassFish project open-source community at https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.glassfish[^], is a compatible implementation of the Jakarta EE 9 platform specification.
This lightweight, flexible, and open-source application server enables organizations not only to leverage the new capabilities introduced within the Jakarta EE 9 specification, but also to add to their existing capabilities through a faster and more streamlined development and deployment cycle.
Eclipse GlassFish Server is hereafter referred to as GlassFish Server.

== Audience

This tutorial is intended for programmers interested in developing and deploying Jakarta EE 9 applications.
It covers the technologies comprising the Jakarta EE platform and describes how to develop Jakarta EE components and deploy them on the Eclipse GlassFish.

== Before You Read This Book

Before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a good knowledge of the Java programming language.
A good way to get to that point is to work through the Java(TM) Tutorials https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/index.html[^].

== Related Documentation

The GlassFish Server documentation set describes deployment planning and system installation.
To obtain the GlassFish Server documentation, go to https://glassfish.org/docs[^].

The Jakarta EE 9 API specification can be viewed at https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/9/[^].

Additionally, the Jakarta EE Specifications at https://jakarta.ee/specifications[^] might be useful.

For information about creating enterprise applications in the NetBeans Integrated Development Environment (IDE), see https://netbeans.apache.org/kb/[^].

For information about Apache Derby for use with GlassFish Server, see https://db.apache.org/derby/docs/10.14/adminguide/[^].

The GlassFish Samples project is a collection of sample applications that demonstrate a broad range of Jakarta EE technologies.
The GlassFish Samples are available from the GlassFish Samples project page at https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish-samples/[^].

== Conventions

The following table describes the typographic conventions that are used in this book.

[width="99%",cols="20%,38%,37%"]
|===
|Convention |Meaning |Example

|*Boldface* |Boldface type indicates graphical user interface elements associated with an action or terms defined in text. |From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

A *cache* is a copy that is stored locally.

|`Monospace` |Monospace type indicates the names of files and directories, commands within a paragraph, URLs, code in examples, text that appears on the screen, or text that you enter. |Edit your `.login` file.

Use `ls -a` to list all files.

`_machine_name_% you have mail.`

|_Italic_ |Italic type indicates book titles, emphasis, or placeholder variables for which you supply particular values. |Read Chapter 6 in the _User's Guide_.

Do _not_ save the file.

The command to remove a file is `rm _filename_`.
|===

== Default Paths and File Names

The following table describes the default paths and file names that are
used in this book.

[width="99%",cols="20%,38%,38%"]
|===
|Placeholder |Description |Default Value

|`_as-install_` |Represents the base installation directory for GlassFish Server. | Installations on the Solaris operating system, Linux operating system, and Mac operating system:

`_user's-home-directory_/glassfish6/glassfish`

Windows, all installations:

`_SystemDrive_:\glassfish6\glassfish`

|`_as-install-parent_` |Represents the parent of the base installation directory for GlassFish Server. |Installations on the Solaris operating system, Linux operating system, and Mac operating system:

`_user's-home-directory_/glassfish6`

Windows, all installations:

`_SystemDrive_:\glassfish6`

|`_jakartaee-examples_` |Represents the base installation directory for the Jakarta EE Tutorial examples project after you download or clone it. |`_user's-home-directory_/jakartaee-examples`

|`_domain-dir_` |Represents the directory in which a domain's configuration is stored. |`_as-install_/domains/domain1`
|===
