src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/faces-facelets/faces-facelets001.adoc, before:

== What Is Facelets?

Facelets is a powerful but lightweight page declaration language that is used to build Jakarta Faces views using HTML style templates and to build component trees.
Facelets features include the following:

* Use of XHTML for creating web pages

* Support for Facelets tag libraries in addition to Jakarta Faces and JSTL tag libraries

* Support for the Expression Language (EL)

* Templating for components and pages

The advantages of Facelets for large-scale development projects include the following:

* Support for code reuse through templating and composite components

* Functional extensibility of components and other server-side objects through customization

* Faster compilation time

* Compile-time EL validation

* High-performance rendering

In short, the use of Facelets reduces the time and effort that needs to be spent on development and deployment.

Facelets views are usually created as XHTML pages.
Jakarta Faces implementations support XHTML pages created in conformance with the XHTML Transitional Document Type Definition (DTD), as listed at https://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/#a_dtd_XHTML-1.0-Transitional[^].
By convention, web pages built with XHTML have an `.xhtml` extension.

Jakarta Faces technology supports various tag libraries to add components to a web page.
To support the Jakarta Faces tag library mechanism, Facelets uses XML namespace declarations.
<<_tag_libraries_supported_by_facelets>> lists the tag libraries supported by Facelets.

[[_tag_libraries_supported_by_facelets]]
.Tag Libraries Supported by Facelets
[width="99%",cols="25%,25%,10%,15%,20%"]
|===
|Tag Library |URI |Prefix |Example |Contents

|Jakarta Faces Facelets Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets |`ui:` | `ui:component`

`ui:insert` |Tags for templating

|Jakarta Faces HTML Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html |`h:` |`h:head`

`h:body`

`h:outputText`

`h:inputText` |Jakarta Faces component tags for all `UIComponent` objects

|Jakarta Faces Core Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/core |`f:` | `f:actionListener`

`f:attribute` |Tags for Jakarta Faces custom actions that are independent of any particular render kit

|Pass-through Elements Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf |`jsf:` |`jsf:id` |Tags to support HTML5-friendly markup

|Pass-through Attributes Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/passthrough |`p:` |`p:type` |Tags to support HTML5-friendly markup

|Composite Component Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/composite |`cc:` |`cc:interface` |Tags to support composite components

|JSTL Core Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsp/jstl/core |`c:` |`c:forEach`

`c:catch` |JSTL 1.2 Core Tags

|JSTL Functions Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsp/jstl/functions |`fn:` |`fn:toUpperCase`

`fn:toLowerCase` |JSTL 1.2 Functions Tags
|===

Facelets provides two namespaces to support HTML5-friendly markup.
For details, see xref:jsf-facelets/jsf-facelets.adoc#_html5_friendly_markup[HTML5-Friendly Markup].

Facelets supports tags for composite components, for which you can declare custom prefixes.
For more information on composite components, see xref:jsf-facelets/jsf-facelets.adoc#_composite_components[Composite Components].

The namespace prefixes shown in the table are conventional, not mandatory.
As is always the case when you declare an XML namespace, you can specify any prefix in your Facelets page.
For example, you can declare the prefix for the composite component tag library as

----
xmlns:composite="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/composite"
----

instead of as

----
xmlns:cc="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/composite"
----

Based on the Jakarta Faces support for Expression Language (EL) syntax, Facelets uses EL expressions to reference properties and methods of managed beans.
EL expressions can be used to bind component objects or values to methods or properties of managed beans that are used as backing beans.
For more information on using EL expressions, see xref:jsf-develop/jsf-develop.adoc#_using_the_el_to_reference_managed_beans[Using the EL to Reference Managed Beans].

Commit message:

JETUT-120 rename links within web module jsf -> faces

src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/faces-facelets/faces-facelets001.adoc, after:

== What Is Facelets?

Facelets is a powerful but lightweight page declaration language that is used to build Jakarta Faces views using HTML style templates and to build component trees.
Facelets features include the following:

* Use of XHTML for creating web pages

* Support for Facelets tag libraries in addition to Jakarta Faces and JSTL tag libraries

* Support for the Expression Language (EL)

* Templating for components and pages

The advantages of Facelets for large-scale development projects include the following:

* Support for code reuse through templating and composite components

* Functional extensibility of components and other server-side objects through customization

* Faster compilation time

* Compile-time EL validation

* High-performance rendering

In short, the use of Facelets reduces the time and effort that needs to be spent on development and deployment.

Facelets views are usually created as XHTML pages.
Jakarta Faces implementations support XHTML pages created in conformance with the XHTML Transitional Document Type Definition (DTD), as listed at https://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/#a_dtd_XHTML-1.0-Transitional[^].
By convention, web pages built with XHTML have an `.xhtml` extension.

Jakarta Faces technology supports various tag libraries to add components to a web page.
To support the Jakarta Faces tag library mechanism, Facelets uses XML namespace declarations.
<<_tag_libraries_supported_by_facelets>> lists the tag libraries supported by Facelets.

[[_tag_libraries_supported_by_facelets]]
.Tag Libraries Supported by Facelets
[width="99%",cols="25%,25%,10%,15%,20%"]
|===
|Tag Library |URI |Prefix |Example |Contents

|Jakarta Faces Facelets Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets |`ui:` | `ui:component`

`ui:insert` |Tags for templating

|Jakarta Faces HTML Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html |`h:` |`h:head`

`h:body`

`h:outputText`

`h:inputText` |Jakarta Faces component tags for all `UIComponent` objects

|Jakarta Faces Core Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/core |`f:` | `f:actionListener`

`f:attribute` |Tags for Jakarta Faces custom actions that are independent of any particular render kit

|Pass-through Elements Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf |`jsf:` |`jsf:id` |Tags to support HTML5-friendly markup

|Pass-through Attributes Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/passthrough |`p:` |`p:type` |Tags to support HTML5-friendly markup

|Composite Component Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/composite |`cc:` |`cc:interface` |Tags to support composite components

|JSTL Core Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsp/jstl/core |`c:` |`c:forEach`

`c:catch` |JSTL 1.2 Core Tags

|JSTL Functions Tag Library |\http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsp/jstl/functions |`fn:` |`fn:toUpperCase`

`fn:toLowerCase` |JSTL 1.2 Functions Tags
|===

Facelets provides two namespaces to support HTML5-friendly markup.
For details, see xref:faces-facelets/faces-facelets.adoc#_html5_friendly_markup[HTML5-Friendly Markup].

Facelets supports tags for composite components, for which you can declare custom prefixes.
For more information on composite components, see xref:faces-facelets/faces-facelets.adoc#_composite_components[Composite Components].

The namespace prefixes shown in the table are conventional, not mandatory.
As is always the case when you declare an XML namespace, you can specify any prefix in your Facelets page.
For example, you can declare the prefix for the composite component tag library as

----
xmlns:composite="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/composite"
----

instead of as

----
xmlns:cc="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/composite"
----

Based on the Jakarta Faces support for Expression Language (EL) syntax, Facelets uses EL expressions to reference properties and methods of managed beans.
EL expressions can be used to bind component objects or values to methods or properties of managed beans that are used as backing beans.
For more information on using EL expressions, see xref:faces-develop/faces-develop.adoc#_using_the_el_to_reference_managed_beans[Using the EL to Reference Managed Beans].
