src/main/antora/modules/security/pages/security-api/security-api004.adoc, before:

== Running the Built-In Database Identity Store Example

The example described in this section demonstrates how to use the built-in database identity store for credential validation.

Topics include:

* <<_overview_of_the_built_in_database_identity_store_example>>

* <<_running_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example>>

=== Overview of the Built-In Database Identity Store Example

Jakarta Security mandates that a Jakarta EE container MUST support a built-in `IdentityStore` backed by a database.
To support this mandatory requirement, `DatabaseIdentityStore` is bundled with GlassFish.

This example demonstrates how you can configure a `DatabaseIdentityStore` to point to a backend database and then use it as an IdentityStore.
The authentication mechanism used is `BasicAuthenticationMechanism`.

The source code for this example is in the `_tut-install_/examples/security/security-api/built-in-db-identity-store` directory.

The following sections describe the high-level process for configuring the `DatabaseIdentityStore`.
Note that the configuration described in these sections has already been completed in the application files, but is provided here to illustrate what you need to do to use the built-in database identity store.

* <<_define_the_users_and_groups_in_the_identity_store>>

* <<_map_the_databaseidentitystore_to_the_default_data_source>>

* <<_specify_the_authentication_mechanism>>

* <<_declare_roles_in_the_servlet_container>>

When a request that includes credentials is sent to the application, it triggers the configured authentication mechanism and authentication is performed against the `DatabaseIdentityStore` as defined in the application.

Post authentication, the application also verifies the roles the caller is in and sends the details as part of the response.

Note that in GlassFish, if the user provides the wrong credentials when using `BasicAuthenticationMechanism`, then the `realmName` is presented to user, as a hint.

[source,shell]
----
curl -I -u Joe http://localhost:8080/built-in-db-identity-store/servlet
Enter host password for user 'Joe':
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Server: Eclipse GlassFish  6.0.0
X-Powered-By: Servlet/5.0 JSP/3.0(Eclipse GlassFish  6.0.0  Java/AdoptOpenJDK/1.8)
WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm="file"
Content-Length: 1056
Content-Language:
Content-Type: text/html
----

==== Define the Users and Groups in the Identity Store

The following table shows the users, passwords, and groups used in this example.

[width="40%",cols="30%,40%,30%"]
|===
|User |Password |Group

|Joe |secret1 |foo, bar

|Sam |secret2 |foo, bar

|Tom |secret2 |foo

|Sue |secret2 |foo
|===

The following code shows how to define credentials and the roles assigned to users in the `DatabaseSetup.java` file.

With `@Startup` annotation, this singleton enterprise bean is initialized during application startup and the credentials are set in the underlying database.

[source,java]
----

import java.sql.Connection;
import java.sql.PreparedStatement;
import java.sql.SQLException;

import jakarta.annotation.PostConstruct;
import jakarta.annotation.PreDestroy;
import jakarta.annotation.Resource;
import jakarta.annotation.sql.DataSourceDefinition;
import jakarta.ejb.Singleton;
import jakarta.ejb.Startup;
import jakarta.sql.DataSource;

@Singleton
@Startup
public class DatabaseSetup {

    // The default datasource that is bundled with GlassFish is used to store // credentials.
    @Resource(lookup="java:comp/DefaultDataSource")
    private DataSource dataSource;

    @PostConstruct
    public void init() {

        // ...
        executeUpdate(dataSource, "INSERT INTO caller VALUES('Joe', '" + passwordHash.generate("secret1".toCharArray()) + "')");
        // ...
        executeUpdate(dataSource, "INSERT INTO caller_groups VALUES('Joe', 'foo')");
        executeUpdate(dataSource, "INSERT INTO caller_groups VALUES('Joe', 'bar')");
        // ...
    }

    @PreDestroy
    public void destroy() {
    	// ...
    }

    private void executeUpdate(DataSource dataSource, String query) {
        // ...
    }
}
----

==== Map the DatabaseIdentityStore to the Default Data source

Use the `@DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation to map the built-in `DatabaseIdentityStore` to the `DefaultDataSource` in the `ApplicationConfig.java` file.
This example also demonstrates the use of the `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` interface.

[source,java]
----

// Database Definition for built-in DatabaseIdentityStore
@DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition(
    callerQuery = "#{'select password from caller where name = ?'}",
    groupsQuery = "select group_name from caller_groups where caller_name = ?",
    hashAlgorithm = Pbkdf2PasswordHash.class,
    priorityExpression = "#{100}",
    hashAlgorithmParameters = {
        "Pbkdf2PasswordHash.Iterations=3072",
        "${applicationConfig.dyna}"
    }
)

@ApplicationScoped
@Named
public class ApplicationConfig {

  public String[] getDyna() {
       return new String[]{"Pbkdf2PasswordHash.Algorithm=PBKDF2WithHmacSHA512", "Pbkdf2PasswordHash.SaltSizeBytes=64"};
   }

}
----

==== Specify the Authentication Mechanism

In this application, credentials are validated using the BASIC authentication mechanism.
Specify the `@BasicAuthenticationMechanismDefinition` annotation in the `ApplicationConfig.java` to ensure that the `BasicAuthenticationMechanism` is used to perform credential validation.

When a request is made to the servlet in question, the container delegates the request to `org.glassfish.soteria.mechanisms.jaspic.HttpBridgeServerAuthModule`, which then invokes the `BasicAuthenticationMechanism#validateRequest` method, and gets the credential from the request.

[source,java]
----
@BasicAuthenticationMechanismDefinition(
        realmName = "file"
)
----

==== Declare Roles in the Servlet Container

When a request is made to the application, the roles the user is in are returned as part of the response.
Note that the container needs to be made aware of the supported roles, which are defined using the `@DeclareRoles({ "foo", "bar", "kaz" })` annotation as shown below.

[source,java]
----
@WebServlet("/servlet")
@DeclareRoles({ "foo", "bar", "kaz" })
@ServletSecurity(@HttpConstraint(rolesAllowed = "foo"))
public class Servlet extends HttpServlet {

    private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;

    @Override
    public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {

        String webName = null;
        if (request.getUserPrincipal() != null) {
            webName = request.getUserPrincipal().getName();
        }

        response.getWriter().write("web username: " + webName + "\n");

        response.getWriter().write("web user has role \"foo\": " + request.isUserInRole("foo") + "\n");
        response.getWriter().write("web user has role \"bar\": " + request.isUserInRole("bar") + "\n");
        response.getWriter().write("web user has role \"kaz\": " + request.isUserInRole("kaz") + "\n");
    }

}
----

In GlassFish 6.0, group to role mapping is enabled by default.
Therefore, you do not need to bundle web.xml with the application to provide mapping between roles and groups.

=== Running the built-in-db-identity-store Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and run the `built-in-db-identity-store` application as described in the following topics:

* <<_to_build_package_and_deploy_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example_using_netbeans_ide>>

* <<_to_build_package_and_deploy_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example_using_maven>>

* <<_to_run_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example>>

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the built-in-db-identity-store Example Using NetBeans IDE

. If you have not already done so, start the default database.
This is necessary because we are using the DefaultDataSource bundled with GlassFish for `DatabaseIdentityStore`.
See <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. If you have not already done so, start the GlassFish server.
See <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>.

. From the File menu, choose Open Project.

. In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/security/security-api
----

. Select the `built-in-db-identity-store` folder.

. Click Open Project.

. In the Projects tab, right-click the `built-in-db-identity-store` project and select Build.
+
This command builds and deploys the example application to your GlassFish Server instance.

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the built-in-db-identity-store Example Using Maven

. If you have not already done so, start the default database.
This is necessary because we are using the DefaultDataSource bundled with GlassFish for `DatabaseIdentityStore`.
See <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. If you have not already done so, start the GlassFish server. See
<<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>.

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/security/security-api/built-in-db-identity-store
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command builds and packages the application into a WAR file, `built-in-db-identity-store.war`, that is located in the `target` directory, then deploys the WAR file.

==== To Run the built-in-db-identity-store Example

In this example, use the credentials of user Joe to make a request and to validate the response according to the credentials/roles defined in `DatabaseSetup.java`.

. Make a request to the deployed application by entering the following request URL in your web browser:
+
Request URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/built-in-db-identity-store/servlet
----
+
Because BASIC authentication is being used here, the container responds back prompting for username and password.

. Enter the username `Joe`, and the password `secret1` at the prompt.
+
Once you provide the credentials, the following process occurs:
+
* The client presents the request to the container with base64 encoded string and with the `Authorization` header using the value in the format expected for basic authentication.

* With the username and password available to the container, validation is performed against `DatabaseIdentityStore`.

* The corresponding `UsernamePasswordCredential` object is passed as a parameter to the `DatabaseIdentityStore#validate()` method.

* The password is fetched from the database for user Joe.

* The password stored in the database is hashed using the `PBKDF2` algorithm and verified by the built-in `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` implementation.

* On successful verification, the request gets delegated to the servlet in question and the following response is returned to the end user.
+
Response:
+
----
web username: Joe
web user has role "foo": true
web user has role "bar": true
web user has role "kaz": false
----

. Test the authentication using invalid credentials.
Make a request to the deployed application by entering the following request URL in your web browser:
+
Request URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/built-in-db-identity-store/servlet
----
+
Again, because BASIC authentication is being used here, the container responds back prompting for username and password.

. Enter an invalid username and password.
You are promted to enter the credentials again, but you are not authenticated.
+
When you click Cancel in the Authentication required window, the following response is returned:
+
----
HTTP Status 401 - Unauthorized

type Status report

message Unauthorized

description This request requires HTTP authentication.

Eclipse GlassFish 6.0.0
----

Commit message:

JETUT-154 LinkChecker recommmendations for security

src/main/antora/modules/security/pages/security-api/security-api004.adoc, after:

== Running the Built-In Database Identity Store Example

The example described in this section demonstrates how to use the built-in database identity store for credential validation.

Topics include:

* <<_overview_of_the_built_in_database_identity_store_example>>

* <<_running_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example>>

=== Overview of the Built-In Database Identity Store Example

Jakarta Security mandates that a Jakarta EE container MUST support a built-in `IdentityStore` backed by a database.
To support this mandatory requirement, `DatabaseIdentityStore` is bundled with GlassFish.

This example demonstrates how you can configure a `DatabaseIdentityStore` to point to a backend database and then use it as an IdentityStore.
The authentication mechanism used is `BasicAuthenticationMechanism`.

The source code for this example is in the `_tut-install_/examples/security/security-api/built-in-db-identity-store` directory.

The following sections describe the high-level process for configuring the `DatabaseIdentityStore`.
Note that the configuration described in these sections has already been completed in the application files, but is provided here to illustrate what you need to do to use the built-in database identity store.

* xref:security-api/security-api.adoc#_define_the_users_and_groups_in_the_identity_store[Define the Users and Groups in the Identity Store]

* <<_map_the_databaseidentitystore_to_the_default_data_source>>

* xref:security-api/security-api.adoc#_specify_the_authentication_mechanism[Specify the Authentication Mechanism]

* xref:security-api/security-api.adoc#_declare_roles_in_the_servlet_container[Declare Roles in the Servlet Container]

When a request that includes credentials is sent to the application, it triggers the configured authentication mechanism and authentication is performed against the `DatabaseIdentityStore` as defined in the application.

Post authentication, the application also verifies the roles the caller is in and sends the details as part of the response.

Note that in GlassFish, if the user provides the wrong credentials when using `BasicAuthenticationMechanism`, then the `realmName` is presented to user, as a hint.

[source,shell]
----
curl -I -u Joe http://localhost:8080/built-in-db-identity-store/servlet
Enter host password for user 'Joe':
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Server: Eclipse GlassFish  6.0.0
X-Powered-By: Servlet/5.0 JSP/3.0(Eclipse GlassFish  6.0.0  Java/AdoptOpenJDK/1.8)
WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm="file"
Content-Length: 1056
Content-Language:
Content-Type: text/html
----

==== Define the Users and Groups in the Identity Store

The following table shows the users, passwords, and groups used in this example.

[width="40%",cols="30%,40%,30%"]
|===
|User |Password |Group

|Joe |secret1 |foo, bar

|Sam |secret2 |foo, bar

|Tom |secret2 |foo

|Sue |secret2 |foo
|===

The following code shows how to define credentials and the roles assigned to users in the `DatabaseSetup.java` file.

With `@Startup` annotation, this singleton enterprise bean is initialized during application startup and the credentials are set in the underlying database.

[source,java]
----

import java.sql.Connection;
import java.sql.PreparedStatement;
import java.sql.SQLException;

import jakarta.annotation.PostConstruct;
import jakarta.annotation.PreDestroy;
import jakarta.annotation.Resource;
import jakarta.annotation.sql.DataSourceDefinition;
import jakarta.ejb.Singleton;
import jakarta.ejb.Startup;
import jakarta.sql.DataSource;

@Singleton
@Startup
public class DatabaseSetup {

    // The default datasource that is bundled with GlassFish is used to store // credentials.
    @Resource(lookup="java:comp/DefaultDataSource")
    private DataSource dataSource;

    @PostConstruct
    public void init() {

        // ...
        executeUpdate(dataSource, "INSERT INTO caller VALUES('Joe', '" + passwordHash.generate("secret1".toCharArray()) + "')");
        // ...
        executeUpdate(dataSource, "INSERT INTO caller_groups VALUES('Joe', 'foo')");
        executeUpdate(dataSource, "INSERT INTO caller_groups VALUES('Joe', 'bar')");
        // ...
    }

    @PreDestroy
    public void destroy() {
    	// ...
    }

    private void executeUpdate(DataSource dataSource, String query) {
        // ...
    }
}
----

==== Map the DatabaseIdentityStore to the Default Data source

Use the `@DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation to map the built-in `DatabaseIdentityStore` to the `DefaultDataSource` in the `ApplicationConfig.java` file.
This example also demonstrates the use of the `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` interface.

[source,java]
----

// Database Definition for built-in DatabaseIdentityStore
@DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition(
    callerQuery = "#{'select password from caller where name = ?'}",
    groupsQuery = "select group_name from caller_groups where caller_name = ?",
    hashAlgorithm = Pbkdf2PasswordHash.class,
    priorityExpression = "#{100}",
    hashAlgorithmParameters = {
        "Pbkdf2PasswordHash.Iterations=3072",
        "${applicationConfig.dyna}"
    }
)

@ApplicationScoped
@Named
public class ApplicationConfig {

  public String[] getDyna() {
       return new String[]{"Pbkdf2PasswordHash.Algorithm=PBKDF2WithHmacSHA512", "Pbkdf2PasswordHash.SaltSizeBytes=64"};
   }

}
----

==== Specify the Authentication Mechanism

In this application, credentials are validated using the BASIC authentication mechanism.
Specify the `@BasicAuthenticationMechanismDefinition` annotation in the `ApplicationConfig.java` to ensure that the `BasicAuthenticationMechanism` is used to perform credential validation.

When a request is made to the servlet in question, the container delegates the request to `org.glassfish.soteria.mechanisms.jaspic.HttpBridgeServerAuthModule`, which then invokes the `BasicAuthenticationMechanism#validateRequest` method, and gets the credential from the request.

[source,java]
----
@BasicAuthenticationMechanismDefinition(
        realmName = "file"
)
----

==== Declare Roles in the Servlet Container

When a request is made to the application, the roles the user is in are returned as part of the response.
Note that the container needs to be made aware of the supported roles, which are defined using the `@DeclareRoles({ "foo", "bar", "kaz" })` annotation as shown below.

[source,java]
----
@WebServlet("/servlet")
@DeclareRoles({ "foo", "bar", "kaz" })
@ServletSecurity(@HttpConstraint(rolesAllowed = "foo"))
public class Servlet extends HttpServlet {

    private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;

    @Override
    public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {

        String webName = null;
        if (request.getUserPrincipal() != null) {
            webName = request.getUserPrincipal().getName();
        }

        response.getWriter().write("web username: " + webName + "\n");

        response.getWriter().write("web user has role \"foo\": " + request.isUserInRole("foo") + "\n");
        response.getWriter().write("web user has role \"bar\": " + request.isUserInRole("bar") + "\n");
        response.getWriter().write("web user has role \"kaz\": " + request.isUserInRole("kaz") + "\n");
    }

}
----

In GlassFish 6.0, group to role mapping is enabled by default.
Therefore, you do not need to bundle web.xml with the application to provide mapping between roles and groups.

=== Running the built-in-db-identity-store Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and run the `built-in-db-identity-store` application as described in the following topics:

* <<_to_build_package_and_deploy_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example_using_netbeans_ide>>

* <<_to_build_package_and_deploy_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example_using_maven>>

* <<_to_run_the_built_in_db_identity_store_example>>

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the built-in-db-identity-store Example Using NetBeans IDE

. If you have not already done so, start the default database.
This is necessary because we are using the DefaultDataSource bundled with GlassFish for `DatabaseIdentityStore`.
See xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_apache_derby[Starting and Stopping Apache Derby].

. If you have not already done so, start the GlassFish server.
See xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_glassfish_server[Starting and Stopping GlassFish Server].

. From the File menu, choose Open Project.

. In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/security/security-api
----

. Select the `built-in-db-identity-store` folder.

. Click Open Project.

. In the Projects tab, right-click the `built-in-db-identity-store` project and select Build.
+
This command builds and deploys the example application to your GlassFish Server instance.

==== To Build, Package, and Deploy the built-in-db-identity-store Example Using Maven

. If you have not already done so, start the default database.
This is necessary because we are using the DefaultDataSource bundled with GlassFish for `DatabaseIdentityStore`.
See xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_apache_derby[Starting and Stopping Apache Derby].

. If you have not already done so, start the GlassFish server. See
xref:intro:usingexamples/usingexamples.adoc#_starting_and_stopping_glassfish_server[Starting and Stopping GlassFish Server].

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/security/security-api/built-in-db-identity-store
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command builds and packages the application into a WAR file, `built-in-db-identity-store.war`, that is located in the `target` directory, then deploys the WAR file.

==== To Run the built-in-db-identity-store Example

In this example, use the credentials of user Joe to make a request and to validate the response according to the credentials/roles defined in `DatabaseSetup.java`.

. Make a request to the deployed application by entering the following request URL in your web browser:
+
Request URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/built-in-db-identity-store/servlet
----
+
Because BASIC authentication is being used here, the container responds back prompting for username and password.

. Enter the username `Joe`, and the password `secret1` at the prompt.
+
Once you provide the credentials, the following process occurs:
+
* The client presents the request to the container with base64 encoded string and with the `Authorization` header using the value in the format expected for basic authentication.

* With the username and password available to the container, validation is performed against `DatabaseIdentityStore`.

* The corresponding `UsernamePasswordCredential` object is passed as a parameter to the `DatabaseIdentityStore#validate()` method.

* The password is fetched from the database for user Joe.

* The password stored in the database is hashed using the `PBKDF2` algorithm and verified by the built-in `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` implementation.

* On successful verification, the request gets delegated to the servlet in question and the following response is returned to the end user.
+
Response:
+
----
web username: Joe
web user has role "foo": true
web user has role "bar": true
web user has role "kaz": false
----

. Test the authentication using invalid credentials.
Make a request to the deployed application by entering the following request URL in your web browser:
+
Request URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/built-in-db-identity-store/servlet
----
+
Again, because BASIC authentication is being used here, the container responds back prompting for username and password.

. Enter an invalid username and password.
You are promted to enter the credentials again, but you are not authenticated.
+
When you click Cancel in the Authentication required window, the following response is returned:
+
----
HTTP Status 401 - Unauthorized

type Status report

message Unauthorized

description This request requires HTTP authentication.

Eclipse GlassFish 6.0.0
----
