src/main/asciidoc/jaxrs-client/jaxrs-client001.adoc, before:

[[BABBIHEJ]][[overview-of-the-client-api]]

== Overview of the Client API

The Jakarta REST Client API provides a high-level API for accessing any REST
resources, not just Jakarta REST services. The Client API is defined in the
`javax.ws.rs.client` package.

[[CHDFCABB]][[creating-a-basic-client-request-using-the-client-api]]

=== Creating a Basic Client Request Using the Client API

The following steps are needed to access a REST resource using the
Client API.

1.  Obtain an instance of the `javax.ws.rs.client.Client` interface.
2.  Configure the `Client` instance with a target.
3.  Create a request based on the target.
4.  Invoke the request.

The Client API is designed to be fluent, with method invocations chained
together to configure and submit a request to a REST resource in only a
few lines of code.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
String name = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/hello")
        .request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .get(String.class);
----

In this example, the client instance is first created by calling the
`javax.ws.rs.client.ClientBuilder.newClient` method. Then, the request
is configured and invoked by chaining method calls together in one line
of code. The `Client.target` method sets the target based on a URI. The
`javax.ws.rs.client.WebTarget.request` method sets the media type for
the returned entity. The `javax.ws.rs.client.Invocation.Builder.get`
method invokes the service using an HTTP `GET` request, setting the type
of the returned entity to `String`.

[[CHDHBFHJ]][[obtaining-the-client-instance]]

=== Obtaining the Client Instance

The `Client` interface defines the actions and infrastructure a REST
client requires to consume a RESTful web service. Instances of `Client`
are obtained by calling the `ClientBuilder.newClient` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
----

Use the `close` method to close `Client` instances after all the
invocations for the target resource have been performed:

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
...
client.close();
----

`Client` instances are heavyweight objects. For performance reasons,
limit the number of `Client` instances in your application, as the
initialization and destruction of these instances may be expensive in
your runtime environment.

[[CHDDCICC]][[setting-the-client-target]]

=== Setting the Client Target

The target of a client, the REST resource at a particular URI, is
represented by an instance of the `javax.ws.rs.client.WebTarget`
interface. You obtain a `WebTarget` instance by calling the
`Client.target` method and passing in the URI of the target REST
resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi");
----

For complex REST resources, it may be beneficial to create several
instances of `WebTarget`. In the following example, a base target is
used to construct several other targets that represent different
services provided by a REST resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget base = client.target("http://example.com/webapi");
// WebTarget at http://example.com/webapi/read
WebTarget read = base.path("read");
// WebTarget at http://example.com/webapi/write
WebTarget write = base.path("write");
----

The `WebTarget.path` method creates a new `WebTarget` instance by
appending the current target URI with the path that was passed in.

[[CHDDBFCG]][[setting-path-parameters-in-targets]]

=== Setting Path Parameters in Targets

Path parameters in client requests can be specified as URI template
parameters, similar to the template parameters used when defining a
resource URI in a Jakarta REST service. Template parameters are specified by
surrounding the template variable with braces (`{}`). Call the
`resolveTemplate` method to substitute the `{username}`, and then call
the `queryParam` method to add another variable to pass.

[source,java]
----
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read")
        .path("{userName}")
        .resolveTemplate("userName", "janedoe")        .queryParam("chapter", "1");// http://example.com/webapi/read/janedoe?chapter=1Response response = myResource.request(...)        .get();
----

[[CHDEFCDB]][[invoking-the-request]]

=== Invoking the Request

After setting and applying any configuration options to the target, call
one of the `WebTarget.request` methods to begin creating the request.
This is usually accomplished by passing to `WebTarget.request` the
accepted media response type for the request either as a string of the
MIME type or using one of the constants in `javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType`.
The `WebTarget.request` method returns an instance of
`javax.ws.rs.client.Invocation.Builder`, a helper object that provides
methods for preparing the client request.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Invocation.Builder builder = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN);
----

Using a `MediaType` constant is equivalent to using the string defining
the MIME type.

[source,java]
----
Invocation.Builder builder = myResource.request("text/plain");
----

After setting the media type, invoke the request by calling one of the
methods of the `Invocation.Builder` instance that corresponds to the
type of HTTP request the target REST resource expects. These methods
are:

* `get()`
* `post()`
* `delete()`
* `put()`
* `head()`
* `options()`

For example, if the target REST resource is for an HTTP GET request,
call the `Invocation.Builder.get` method. The return type should
correspond to the entity returned by the target REST resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .get(String.class);
----

If the target REST resource is expecting an HTTP POST request, call the
`Invocation.Builder.post` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
StoreOrder order = new StoreOrder(...);
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/write");
TrackingNumber trackingNumber = myResource.request(MediaType.APPLICATION_XML)
                                   .post(Entity.xml(order), TrackingNumber.class);
----

In the preceding example, the return type is a custom class and is
retrieved by setting the type in the
`Invocation.Builder.post(Entity<?> entity, Class<T> responseType)`
method as a parameter.

If the return type is a collection, use
`javax.ws.rs.core.GenericType<T>` as the response type parameter, where
`T` is the collection type:

[source,java]
----
List<StoreOrder> orders = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read")
        .path("allOrders")
        .request(MediaType.APPLICATION_XML)
        .get(new GenericType<List<StoreOrder>>() {});
----

This preceding example shows how methods are chained together in the
Client API to simplify how requests are configured and invoked.

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/jaxrs-client/jaxrs-client001.adoc, after:

[[BABBIHEJ]][[overview-of-the-client-api]]

== Overview of the Client API

The Jakarta REST Client API provides a high-level API for accessing any REST
resources, not just Jakarta REST services. The Client API is defined in the
`jakarta.ws.rs.client` package.

[[CHDFCABB]][[creating-a-basic-client-request-using-the-client-api]]

=== Creating a Basic Client Request Using the Client API

The following steps are needed to access a REST resource using the
Client API.

1.  Obtain an instance of the `jakarta.ws.rs.client.Client` interface.
2.  Configure the `Client` instance with a target.
3.  Create a request based on the target.
4.  Invoke the request.

The Client API is designed to be fluent, with method invocations chained
together to configure and submit a request to a REST resource in only a
few lines of code.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
String name = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/hello")
        .request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .get(String.class);
----

In this example, the client instance is first created by calling the
`jakarta.ws.rs.client.ClientBuilder.newClient` method. Then, the request
is configured and invoked by chaining method calls together in one line
of code. The `Client.target` method sets the target based on a URI. The
`jakarta.ws.rs.client.WebTarget.request` method sets the media type for
the returned entity. The `jakarta.ws.rs.client.Invocation.Builder.get`
method invokes the service using an HTTP `GET` request, setting the type
of the returned entity to `String`.

[[CHDHBFHJ]][[obtaining-the-client-instance]]

=== Obtaining the Client Instance

The `Client` interface defines the actions and infrastructure a REST
client requires to consume a RESTful web service. Instances of `Client`
are obtained by calling the `ClientBuilder.newClient` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
----

Use the `close` method to close `Client` instances after all the
invocations for the target resource have been performed:

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
...
client.close();
----

`Client` instances are heavyweight objects. For performance reasons,
limit the number of `Client` instances in your application, as the
initialization and destruction of these instances may be expensive in
your runtime environment.

[[CHDDCICC]][[setting-the-client-target]]

=== Setting the Client Target

The target of a client, the REST resource at a particular URI, is
represented by an instance of the `jakarta.ws.rs.client.WebTarget`
interface. You obtain a `WebTarget` instance by calling the
`Client.target` method and passing in the URI of the target REST
resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi");
----

For complex REST resources, it may be beneficial to create several
instances of `WebTarget`. In the following example, a base target is
used to construct several other targets that represent different
services provided by a REST resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget base = client.target("http://example.com/webapi");
// WebTarget at http://example.com/webapi/read
WebTarget read = base.path("read");
// WebTarget at http://example.com/webapi/write
WebTarget write = base.path("write");
----

The `WebTarget.path` method creates a new `WebTarget` instance by
appending the current target URI with the path that was passed in.

[[CHDDBFCG]][[setting-path-parameters-in-targets]]

=== Setting Path Parameters in Targets

Path parameters in client requests can be specified as URI template
parameters, similar to the template parameters used when defining a
resource URI in a Jakarta REST service. Template parameters are specified by
surrounding the template variable with braces (`{}`). Call the
`resolveTemplate` method to substitute the `{username}`, and then call
the `queryParam` method to add another variable to pass.

[source,java]
----
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read")
        .path("{userName}")
        .resolveTemplate("userName", "janedoe")        .queryParam("chapter", "1");// http://example.com/webapi/read/janedoe?chapter=1Response response = myResource.request(...)        .get();
----

[[CHDEFCDB]][[invoking-the-request]]

=== Invoking the Request

After setting and applying any configuration options to the target, call
one of the `WebTarget.request` methods to begin creating the request.
This is usually accomplished by passing to `WebTarget.request` the
accepted media response type for the request either as a string of the
MIME type or using one of the constants in `jakarta.ws.rs.core.MediaType`.
The `WebTarget.request` method returns an instance of
`jakarta.ws.rs.client.Invocation.Builder`, a helper object that provides
methods for preparing the client request.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Invocation.Builder builder = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN);
----

Using a `MediaType` constant is equivalent to using the string defining
the MIME type.

[source,java]
----
Invocation.Builder builder = myResource.request("text/plain");
----

After setting the media type, invoke the request by calling one of the
methods of the `Invocation.Builder` instance that corresponds to the
type of HTTP request the target REST resource expects. These methods
are:

* `get()`
* `post()`
* `delete()`
* `put()`
* `head()`
* `options()`

For example, if the target REST resource is for an HTTP GET request,
call the `Invocation.Builder.get` method. The return type should
correspond to the entity returned by the target REST resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .get(String.class);
----

If the target REST resource is expecting an HTTP POST request, call the
`Invocation.Builder.post` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
StoreOrder order = new StoreOrder(...);
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/write");
TrackingNumber trackingNumber = myResource.request(MediaType.APPLICATION_XML)
                                   .post(Entity.xml(order), TrackingNumber.class);
----

In the preceding example, the return type is a custom class and is
retrieved by setting the type in the
`Invocation.Builder.post(Entity<?> entity, Class<T> responseType)`
method as a parameter.

If the return type is a collection, use
`jakarta.ws.rs.core.GenericType<T>` as the response type parameter, where
`T` is the collection type:

[source,java]
----
List<StoreOrder> orders = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read")
        .path("allOrders")
        .request(MediaType.APPLICATION_XML)
        .get(new GenericType<List<StoreOrder>>() {});
----

This preceding example shows how methods are chained together in the
Client API to simplify how requests are configured and invoked.
