src/main/asciidoc/jaxrs-client/jaxrs-client003.adoc, before:

[[BABCDDGH]][[advanced-features-of-the-client-api]]

== Advanced Features of the Client API

This section describes some of the advanced features of the Jakarta REST
Client API.

[[CHDGBBCC]][[configuring-the-client-request]]

=== Configuring the Client Request

Additional configuration options may be added to the client request
after it is created but before it is invoked.

[[CHDHAFBG]][[setting-message-headers-in-the-client-request]]

==== Setting Message Headers in the Client Request

You can set HTTP headers on the request by calling the
`Invocation.Builder.header` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .header("myHeader", "The header value")
        .get(String.class);
----

If you need to set multiple headers on the request, call the
`Invocation.Builder.headers` method and pass in a
`javax.ws.rs.core.MultivaluedMap` instance with the name-value pairs of
the HTTP headers. Calling the `headers` method replaces all the existing
headers with the headers supplied in the `MultivaluedMap` instance.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
MultivaluedMap<String, Object> myHeaders =
    new MultivaluedMap<>("myHeader", "The header value");
myHeaders.add(...);
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .headers(myHeaders)
        .get(String.class);
----

The `MultivaluedMap` interface allows you to specify multiple values for
a given key.

[source,java]
----
MultivaluedMap<String, Object> myHeaders =
    new MultivaluedMap<String, Object>();
List<String> values = new ArrayList<>();
values.add(...)
myHeaders.add("myHeader", values
----

[[CHDHFFDJ]][[setting-cookies-in-the-client-request]]

==== Setting Cookies in the Client Request

You can add HTTP cookies to the request by calling the
`Invocation.Builder.cookie` method, which takes a name-value pair as
parameters.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .cookie("myCookie", "The cookie value")
        .get(String.class);
----

The `javax.ws.rs.core.Cookie` class encapsulates the attributes of an
HTTP cookie, including the name, value, path, domain, and RFC
specification version of the cookie. In the following example, the
`Cookie` object is configured with a name-value pair, a path, and a
domain.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Cookie myCookie = new Cookie("myCookie", "The cookie value",
    "/webapi/read", "example.com");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .cookie(myCookie)
        .get(String.class);
----

[[CHDJEFID]][[adding-filters-to-the-client]]

==== Adding Filters to the Client

You can register custom filters with the client request or the response
received from the target resource. To register filter classes when the
`Client` instance is created, call the `Client.register` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient().register(MyLoggingFilter.class);
----

In the preceding example, all invocations that use this `Client`
instance have the `MyLoggingFilter` filter registered with them.

You can also register the filter classes on the target by calling
`WebTarget.register`.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient().register(MyLoggingFilter.class);
WebTarget target = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/secure")
        .register(MyAuthenticationFilter.class);
----

In the preceding example, both the `MyLoggingFilter` and
`MyAuthenticationFilter` filters are attached to the invocation.

Request and response filter classes implement the
`javax.ws.rs.client.ClientRequestFilter` and
`javax.ws.rs.client.ClientResponseFilter` interfaces, respectively. Both
of these interfaces define a single method, `filter`. All filters must
be annotated with `javax.ws.rs.ext.Provider`.

The following class is a logging filter for both client requests and
client responses.

[source,java]
----
@Provider
public class MyLoggingFilter implements ClientRequestFilter,
        ClientResponseFilter {
    static final Logger logger = Logger.getLogger(...);

    // implement the ClientRequestFilter.filter method
    @Override
    public void filter(ClientRequestContext requestContext)
            throws IOException {
        logger.log(...);
        ...
    }

    // implement the ClientResponseFilter.filter method
    @Override
    public void filter(ClientRequestContext requestContext,
           ClientResponseContext responseContext) throws IOException {
        logger.log(...);
        ...
    }
}
----

If the invocation must be stopped while the filter is active, call the
context object's `abortWith` method, and pass in a
`javax.ws.rs.core.Response` instance from within the filter.

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void filter(ClientRequestContext requestContext) throws IOException {
    ...
    Response response = new Response();
    response.status(500);
    requestContext.abortWith(response);
}
----

[[CHDEBIGG]][[asynchronous-invocations-in-the-client-api]]

=== Asynchronous Invocations in the Client API

In networked applications, network issues can affect the perceived
performance of the application, particularly in long-running or
complicated network calls. Asynchronous processing helps prevent
blocking and makes better use of an application's resources.

In the Jakarta REST Client API, the `Invocation.Builder.async` method is used
when constructing a client request to indicate that the call to the
service should be performed asynchronously. An asynchronous invocation
returns control to the caller immediately, with a return type of
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/Future.html?is-external=true[`java.util.concurrent.Future<T>`]
(part of the Java SE concurrency API) and with the type set to the
return type of the service call. `Future<T>` objects have methods to
check if the asynchronous call has been completed, to retrieve the final
result, to cancel the invocation, and to check if the invocation has
been cancelled.

The following example shows how to invoke an asynchronous request on a
resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Future<String> response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .async()
        .get(String.class);
----

[[sthref140]][[using-custom-callbacks-in-asynchronous-invocations]]

==== Using Custom Callbacks in Asynchronous Invocations

The `InvocationCallback` interface defines two methods, `completed` and
`failed`, that are called when an asynchronous invocation either
completes successfully or fails, respectively. You may register an
`InvocationCallback` instance on your request by creating a new instance
when specifying the request method.

The following example shows how to register a callback object on an
asynchronous invocation.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Future<Customer> fCustomer = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .async()
        .get(new InvocationCallback<Customer>() {
            @Override
            public void completed(Customer customer) {
            // Do something with the customer object
            }
            @Override
             public void failed(Throwable throwable) {
            // handle the error
            }
    });
----

[[sthref141]][[using-reactive-approach-in-asynchronous-invocations]]

==== Using Reactive Approach in Asynchronous Invocations

Using custom callbacks in asynchronous invocations is easy in simple
cases and when there are many independent calls to make. In nested
calls, using custom callbacks becomes very difficult to implement,
debug, and maintain.

Jakarta REST defines a new type of invoker called as `RxInvoker` and a default
implementation of this type is `CompletionStageRxInvoker`. The new `rx`
method is used as in the following example:

[source,java]
----
CompletionStage<String> csf = client.target("forecast/{destination}") resolveTemplate("destination", "mars").request().rx().get(String.class);
csf.thenAccept(System.out::println);
----

In the example, an asynchronous processing of the interface
`CompletionStage<String>` is created and waits till it is completed and
the result is displayed. The `CompletionStage` that is returned can then be used only to retrieve the result as shown in the above example or can be combined with other completion stages to ease and improve the processing of asynchronous tasks.

[[sthref142]][[using-server-sent-events]]

=== Using Server-Sent Events

Server-sent Events (SSE) technology is used to asynchronously push
notifications to the client over standard HTTP or HTTPS protocol.
Clients can subscribe to event notifications that originate on a server.
Server generates events and sends these events back to the clients
that are subscribed to receive the notifications. The one-way
communication channel connection is established by the client. Once the
connection is established, the server sends events to the client
whenever new data is available.

The communication channel established by the client lasts till the
client closes the connection and it is also re-used by the server to
send multiple events from the server.

[[sthref143]][[overview-of-the-sse-api]]

=== Overview of the SSE API

The SSE API is defined in the `javax.ws.rs.sse` package that includes
the interfaces `SseEventSink`, `SseEvent`, `Sse`, and `SseEventSource`.
To accept connections and send events to one or more clients, inject an
`SseEventSink` in the resource method that produces the media type
`text/event-stream`.

The following example shows how to accept the SSE connections and to
send events to the clients:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("eventStream")
@Produces(MediaType.SERVER_SENT_EVENTS)
public void eventStream(@Context SseEventSink eventSink,
@Context Sse sse) {
executor.execute(() -> {
try (SseEventSink sink = eventSink) {
eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("event1"));
eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("event2"));
eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("event3"));
}
});
}
----

The `SseEventsink` is injected into the resource method and the
underlying client connection is kept open and used to send events. The
connection persists until the client disconnects from the server. The
method `send` returns an instance of `CompletionStage<T>` which
indicates the action of asynchronously sending a message to a client is
enabled.

The events that are streamed to the clients can be defined with the
details such as `event`, `data`, `id`, `retry`, and `comment`.

[[sthref144]][[broadcasting-using-sse]]

=== Broadcasting Using SSE

Broadcasting is the action of sending events to multiple clients
simultaneously. Jakarta REST SSE API provides `SseBroadcaster` to register all
`SseEventSink` instances and send events to all registered event
outputs. The life-cycle and scope of an `SseBroadcaster` is fully
controlled by applications and not the Jakarta REST runtime. The following
example show the use of broadcasters:

[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
@Singleton
public class SseResource {
    @Context
    private Sse sse;
    
    private volatile SseBroadcaster sseBroadcaster;

    @PostConstruct
    public init() {
        this.sseBroadcaster = sse.newBroadcaster();
    }

    @GET
    @Path("register")
    @Produces(MediaType.SERVER_SENT_EVENTS)
        public void register(@Context SseEventSink eventSink) {
        eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("welcome!"));
        sseBroadcaster.register(eventSink);
    }

    @POST
    @Path("broadcast")
    @Consumes(MediaType.MULTIPART_FORM_DATA)
    public void broadcast(@FormParam("event") String event) {
        sseBroadcaster.broadcast(sse.newEvent(event));
    }
}
----

`@Singleton` annotation is defined for the resource class restricting
the creation of multiple instances of the class. The `register` method
on a broadcaster is used to add a new `SseEventSink`; the `broadcast`
method is used to send an SSE event to all registered clients.

[[sthref145]][[listening-and-receiving-events]]

=== Listening and Receiving Events

Jakarta REST SSE provides the `SseEventSource` interface for the client to
subscribe to notifications. The client can get asynchronously notified
about incoming events by invoking one of the `subscribe` methods in
`javax.ws.rs.sse.SseEventSource`.

The following example shows how to use the `SseEventSource` API to open
an SSE connection and read some of the messages for a period:

[source,java]
----
WebTarget target = client.target("http://...");
try (SseEventSource source = SseEventSource.target(target).build()) {
    source.register(System.out::println);
    source.open();
    Thread.sleep(500); // Consume events for just 500 ms
    source.close();
} catch (InterruptedException e) {
    // falls through
}
----

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/jaxrs-client/jaxrs-client003.adoc, after:

[[BABCDDGH]][[advanced-features-of-the-client-api]]

== Advanced Features of the Client API

This section describes some of the advanced features of the Jakarta REST
Client API.

[[CHDGBBCC]][[configuring-the-client-request]]

=== Configuring the Client Request

Additional configuration options may be added to the client request
after it is created but before it is invoked.

[[CHDHAFBG]][[setting-message-headers-in-the-client-request]]

==== Setting Message Headers in the Client Request

You can set HTTP headers on the request by calling the
`Invocation.Builder.header` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .header("myHeader", "The header value")
        .get(String.class);
----

If you need to set multiple headers on the request, call the
`Invocation.Builder.headers` method and pass in a
`jakarta.ws.rs.core.MultivaluedMap` instance with the name-value pairs of
the HTTP headers. Calling the `headers` method replaces all the existing
headers with the headers supplied in the `MultivaluedMap` instance.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
MultivaluedMap<String, Object> myHeaders =
    new MultivaluedMap<>("myHeader", "The header value");
myHeaders.add(...);
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .headers(myHeaders)
        .get(String.class);
----

The `MultivaluedMap` interface allows you to specify multiple values for
a given key.

[source,java]
----
MultivaluedMap<String, Object> myHeaders =
    new MultivaluedMap<String, Object>();
List<String> values = new ArrayList<>();
values.add(...)
myHeaders.add("myHeader", values
----

[[CHDHFFDJ]][[setting-cookies-in-the-client-request]]

==== Setting Cookies in the Client Request

You can add HTTP cookies to the request by calling the
`Invocation.Builder.cookie` method, which takes a name-value pair as
parameters.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .cookie("myCookie", "The cookie value")
        .get(String.class);
----

The `jakarta.ws.rs.core.Cookie` class encapsulates the attributes of an
HTTP cookie, including the name, value, path, domain, and RFC
specification version of the cookie. In the following example, the
`Cookie` object is configured with a name-value pair, a path, and a
domain.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Cookie myCookie = new Cookie("myCookie", "The cookie value",
    "/webapi/read", "example.com");
String response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .cookie(myCookie)
        .get(String.class);
----

[[CHDJEFID]][[adding-filters-to-the-client]]

==== Adding Filters to the Client

You can register custom filters with the client request or the response
received from the target resource. To register filter classes when the
`Client` instance is created, call the `Client.register` method.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient().register(MyLoggingFilter.class);
----

In the preceding example, all invocations that use this `Client`
instance have the `MyLoggingFilter` filter registered with them.

You can also register the filter classes on the target by calling
`WebTarget.register`.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient().register(MyLoggingFilter.class);
WebTarget target = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/secure")
        .register(MyAuthenticationFilter.class);
----

In the preceding example, both the `MyLoggingFilter` and
`MyAuthenticationFilter` filters are attached to the invocation.

Request and response filter classes implement the
`jakarta.ws.rs.client.ClientRequestFilter` and
`jakarta.ws.rs.client.ClientResponseFilter` interfaces, respectively. Both
of these interfaces define a single method, `filter`. All filters must
be annotated with `jakarta.ws.rs.ext.Provider`.

The following class is a logging filter for both client requests and
client responses.

[source,java]
----
@Provider
public class MyLoggingFilter implements ClientRequestFilter,
        ClientResponseFilter {
    static final Logger logger = Logger.getLogger(...);

    // implement the ClientRequestFilter.filter method
    @Override
    public void filter(ClientRequestContext requestContext)
            throws IOException {
        logger.log(...);
        ...
    }

    // implement the ClientResponseFilter.filter method
    @Override
    public void filter(ClientRequestContext requestContext,
           ClientResponseContext responseContext) throws IOException {
        logger.log(...);
        ...
    }
}
----

If the invocation must be stopped while the filter is active, call the
context object's `abortWith` method, and pass in a
`jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response` instance from within the filter.

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void filter(ClientRequestContext requestContext) throws IOException {
    ...
    Response response = new Response();
    response.status(500);
    requestContext.abortWith(response);
}
----

[[CHDEBIGG]][[asynchronous-invocations-in-the-client-api]]

=== Asynchronous Invocations in the Client API

In networked applications, network issues can affect the perceived
performance of the application, particularly in long-running or
complicated network calls. Asynchronous processing helps prevent
blocking and makes better use of an application's resources.

In the Jakarta REST Client API, the `Invocation.Builder.async` method is used
when constructing a client request to indicate that the call to the
service should be performed asynchronously. An asynchronous invocation
returns control to the caller immediately, with a return type of
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/Future.html?is-external=true[`java.util.concurrent.Future<T>`]
(part of the Java SE concurrency API) and with the type set to the
return type of the service call. `Future<T>` objects have methods to
check if the asynchronous call has been completed, to retrieve the final
result, to cancel the invocation, and to check if the invocation has
been cancelled.

The following example shows how to invoke an asynchronous request on a
resource.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Future<String> response = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .async()
        .get(String.class);
----

[[sthref140]][[using-custom-callbacks-in-asynchronous-invocations]]

==== Using Custom Callbacks in Asynchronous Invocations

The `InvocationCallback` interface defines two methods, `completed` and
`failed`, that are called when an asynchronous invocation either
completes successfully or fails, respectively. You may register an
`InvocationCallback` instance on your request by creating a new instance
when specifying the request method.

The following example shows how to register a callback object on an
asynchronous invocation.

[source,java]
----
Client client = ClientBuilder.newClient();
WebTarget myResource = client.target("http://example.com/webapi/read");
Future<Customer> fCustomer = myResource.request(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
        .async()
        .get(new InvocationCallback<Customer>() {
            @Override
            public void completed(Customer customer) {
            // Do something with the customer object
            }
            @Override
             public void failed(Throwable throwable) {
            // handle the error
            }
    });
----

[[sthref141]][[using-reactive-approach-in-asynchronous-invocations]]

==== Using Reactive Approach in Asynchronous Invocations

Using custom callbacks in asynchronous invocations is easy in simple
cases and when there are many independent calls to make. In nested
calls, using custom callbacks becomes very difficult to implement,
debug, and maintain.

Jakarta REST defines a new type of invoker called as `RxInvoker` and a default
implementation of this type is `CompletionStageRxInvoker`. The new `rx`
method is used as in the following example:

[source,java]
----
CompletionStage<String> csf = client.target("forecast/{destination}") resolveTemplate("destination", "mars").request().rx().get(String.class);
csf.thenAccept(System.out::println);
----

In the example, an asynchronous processing of the interface
`CompletionStage<String>` is created and waits till it is completed and
the result is displayed. The `CompletionStage` that is returned can then be used only to retrieve the result as shown in the above example or can be combined with other completion stages to ease and improve the processing of asynchronous tasks.

[[sthref142]][[using-server-sent-events]]

=== Using Server-Sent Events

Server-sent Events (SSE) technology is used to asynchronously push
notifications to the client over standard HTTP or HTTPS protocol.
Clients can subscribe to event notifications that originate on a server.
Server generates events and sends these events back to the clients
that are subscribed to receive the notifications. The one-way
communication channel connection is established by the client. Once the
connection is established, the server sends events to the client
whenever new data is available.

The communication channel established by the client lasts till the
client closes the connection and it is also re-used by the server to
send multiple events from the server.

[[sthref143]][[overview-of-the-sse-api]]

=== Overview of the SSE API

The SSE API is defined in the `jakarta.ws.rs.sse` package that includes
the interfaces `SseEventSink`, `SseEvent`, `Sse`, and `SseEventSource`.
To accept connections and send events to one or more clients, inject an
`SseEventSink` in the resource method that produces the media type
`text/event-stream`.

The following example shows how to accept the SSE connections and to
send events to the clients:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("eventStream")
@Produces(MediaType.SERVER_SENT_EVENTS)
public void eventStream(@Context SseEventSink eventSink,
@Context Sse sse) {
executor.execute(() -> {
try (SseEventSink sink = eventSink) {
eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("event1"));
eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("event2"));
eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("event3"));
}
});
}
----

The `SseEventsink` is injected into the resource method and the
underlying client connection is kept open and used to send events. The
connection persists until the client disconnects from the server. The
method `send` returns an instance of `CompletionStage<T>` which
indicates the action of asynchronously sending a message to a client is
enabled.

The events that are streamed to the clients can be defined with the
details such as `event`, `data`, `id`, `retry`, and `comment`.

[[sthref144]][[broadcasting-using-sse]]

=== Broadcasting Using SSE

Broadcasting is the action of sending events to multiple clients
simultaneously. Jakarta REST SSE API provides `SseBroadcaster` to register all
`SseEventSink` instances and send events to all registered event
outputs. The life-cycle and scope of an `SseBroadcaster` is fully
controlled by applications and not the Jakarta REST runtime. The following
example show the use of broadcasters:

[source,java]
----
@Path("/")
@Singleton
public class SseResource {
    @Context
    private Sse sse;
    
    private volatile SseBroadcaster sseBroadcaster;

    @PostConstruct
    public init() {
        this.sseBroadcaster = sse.newBroadcaster();
    }

    @GET
    @Path("register")
    @Produces(MediaType.SERVER_SENT_EVENTS)
        public void register(@Context SseEventSink eventSink) {
        eventSink.send(sse.newEvent("welcome!"));
        sseBroadcaster.register(eventSink);
    }

    @POST
    @Path("broadcast")
    @Consumes(MediaType.MULTIPART_FORM_DATA)
    public void broadcast(@FormParam("event") String event) {
        sseBroadcaster.broadcast(sse.newEvent(event));
    }
}
----

`@Singleton` annotation is defined for the resource class restricting
the creation of multiple instances of the class. The `register` method
on a broadcaster is used to add a new `SseEventSink`; the `broadcast`
method is used to send an SSE event to all registered clients.

[[sthref145]][[listening-and-receiving-events]]

=== Listening and Receiving Events

Jakarta REST SSE provides the `SseEventSource` interface for the client to
subscribe to notifications. The client can get asynchronously notified
about incoming events by invoking one of the `subscribe` methods in
`jakarta.ws.rs.sse.SseEventSource`.

The following example shows how to use the `SseEventSource` API to open
an SSE connection and read some of the messages for a period:

[source,java]
----
WebTarget target = client.target("http://...");
try (SseEventSource source = SseEventSource.target(target).build()) {
    source.register(System.out::println);
    source.open();
    Thread.sleep(500); // Consume events for just 500 ms
    source.close();
} catch (InterruptedException e) {
    // falls through
}
----
