src/main/antora/modules/intro/pages/usingexamples/usingexamples001.adoc, before:

== Required Software

The following software is required to run the examples:

* <<_java_platform_standard_edition>>

* <<_eclipse_glassfish_server>>

* <<_jakarta_ee_tutorial_examples>>

* <<_apache_netbeans_ide>>

* <<_apache_maven>>

=== Java Platform, Standard Edition

To build, deploy, and run the examples, you need a copy of the Java Platform, Standard Edition Development Kit (JDK).
You must use JDK 8 Update 20 or above.
You can download JDK software from https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html[^].

=== Eclipse Glassfish Server

GlassFish Server 6.0 is targeted as the build and runtime environment for the tutorial examples.
To build, deploy, and run the examples, you need a copy of GlassFish Server and, optionally, NetBeans IDE.
You can download GlassFish Server from https://glassfish.org/download[^].

==== GlassFish Server Installation Tips

GlassFish Server is installed from a ZIP file.
It sets the default administration user name as `admin` with no required password.
The Admin Port is set to 4848, and the HTTP Port is set to 8080.

This tutorial refers to `_as-install-parent_`, the directory where you install GlassFish Server.
For example, the default installation directory on Microsoft Windows is `C:\glassfish6`, so `_as-install-parent_` is `C:\glassfish6`.
GlassFish Server itself is installed in `_as-install_`, the `glassfish` directory under `_as-install-parent_`.
So on Microsoft Windows, `_as-install_` is `C:\glassfish6\glassfish`.

After you install GlassFish Server, add the following directories to your `PATH` to avoid having to specify the full path when you use commands:

----
as-install-parent/bin
as-install/bin
----

=== Jakarta EE Tutorial Examples

The tutorial example codes are located at https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tutorial-examples.

Download the examples and extract it to the following location:

----
tut-install/examples/
----

=== Apache NetBeans IDE

The NetBeans integrated development environment (IDE) is a free, open-source IDE for developing Java applications, including enterprise applications.
NetBeans IDE supports the Jakarta EE platform.
You can build, package, deploy, and run the tutorial examples from within NetBeans IDE.

To run the tutorial examples, you need the latest version of NetBeans IDE.
You can download NetBeans IDE from https://netbeans.apache.org/download/index.html[^].

==== To Add GlassFish Server as a Server Using NetBeans IDE

To run the tutorial examples in NetBeans IDE, you must add your GlassFish Server as a server in NetBeans IDE.
Follow these instructions to add GlassFish Server to NetBeans IDE.

. From the *Tools* menu, choose *Servers*.

. In the Servers wizard, click *Add Server*.

. Under Choose Server, select *GlassFish Server* and click *Next*.

. Under Server Location, browse to the GlassFish Server installation and click *Next*.

. Under Domain Location, select *Register Local Domain*.

. Click *Finish*.

=== Apache Maven

Maven is a Java technology-based build tool developed by the Apache Software Foundation and is used to build, package, and deploy the tutorial examples.
To run the tutorial examples from the command line, you need Maven 3.0 or higher. If you do not already have Maven, you can install it from:

https://maven.apache.org[^]

Be sure to add the `maven-install/bin` directory to your path.

If you are using NetBeans IDE to build and run the examples, it includes a copy of Maven.

Commit message:

update paths to examples, tut-install -> jakartaee-examples #53

src/main/antora/modules/intro/pages/usingexamples/usingexamples001.adoc, after:

== Required Software

The following software is required to run the examples:

* <<_java_platform_standard_edition>>

* <<_eclipse_glassfish_server>>

* <<_jakarta_ee_tutorial_examples>>

* <<_apache_netbeans_ide>>

* <<_apache_maven>>

=== Java Platform, Standard Edition

To build, deploy, and run the examples, you need a copy of the Java Platform, Standard Edition Development Kit (JDK).
You must use JDK 8 Update 20 or above.
You can download JDK software from https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html[^].

=== Eclipse Glassfish Server

GlassFish Server 6.0 is targeted as the build and runtime environment for the tutorial examples.
To build, deploy, and run the examples, you need a copy of GlassFish Server and, optionally, NetBeans IDE.
You can download GlassFish Server from https://glassfish.org/download[^].

==== GlassFish Server Installation Tips

GlassFish Server is installed from a ZIP file.
It sets the default administration user name as `admin` with no required password.
The Admin Port is set to 4848, and the HTTP Port is set to 8080.

This tutorial refers to `_as-install-parent_`, the directory where you install GlassFish Server.
For example, the default installation directory on Microsoft Windows is `C:\glassfish6`, so `_as-install-parent_` is `C:\glassfish6`.
GlassFish Server itself is installed in `_as-install_`, the `glassfish` directory under `_as-install-parent_`.
So on Microsoft Windows, `_as-install_` is `C:\glassfish6\glassfish`.

After you install GlassFish Server, add the following directories to your `PATH` to avoid having to specify the full path when you use commands:

----
as-install-parent/bin
as-install/bin
----

=== Jakarta EE Tutorial Examples

The tutorial example codes are located at https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-examples

Clone or download this repository to your preferred location, this path is referenced in the tutorial as the _jakartaee-examples_ directory.

=== Apache NetBeans IDE

The NetBeans integrated development environment (IDE) is a free, open-source IDE for developing Java applications, including enterprise applications.
NetBeans IDE supports the Jakarta EE platform.
You can build, package, deploy, and run the tutorial examples from within NetBeans IDE.

To run the tutorial examples, you need the latest version of NetBeans IDE.
You can download NetBeans IDE from https://netbeans.apache.org/download/index.html[^].

==== To Add GlassFish Server as a Server Using NetBeans IDE

To run the tutorial examples in NetBeans IDE, you must add your GlassFish Server as a server in NetBeans IDE.
Follow these instructions to add GlassFish Server to NetBeans IDE.

. From the *Tools* menu, choose *Servers*.

. In the Servers wizard, click *Add Server*.

. Under Choose Server, select *GlassFish Server* and click *Next*.

. Under Server Location, browse to the GlassFish Server installation and click *Next*.

. Under Domain Location, select *Register Local Domain*.

. Click *Finish*.

=== Apache Maven

Maven is a Java technology-based build tool developed by the Apache Software Foundation and is used to build, package, and deploy the tutorial examples.
To run the tutorial examples from the command line, you need Maven 3.0 or higher. If you do not already have Maven, you can install it from:

https://maven.apache.org[^]

Be sure to add the `maven-install/bin` directory to your path.

If you are using NetBeans IDE to build and run the examples, it includes a copy of Maven.
