src/main/asciidoc/persistence-cache/persistence-cache002.adoc, before:

[[GKJJJ]][[specifying-the-cache-mode-settings-to-improve-performance]]

== Specifying the Cache Mode Settings to Improve Performance

To adjust the cache mode settings for a persistence unit, specify one of
the cache modes as the value of the `shared-cache-mode` element in the
`persistence.xml` deployment descriptor (shown in bold):

[source,xml]
----
<persistence-unit name="examplePU" transaction-type="JTA">
    <provider>org.eclipse.persistence.jpa.PersistenceProvider</provider>
    <jta-data-source>java:comp/DefaultDataSource</jta-data-source>
    <shared-cache-mode>DISABLE_SELECTIVE</shared-cache-mode>
</persistence-unit>
----


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

Because support for a second-level cache is not required by the Jakarta
Persistence specification, setting the second-level cache mode in
`persistence.xml` will have no effect when you use a persistence
provider that does not implement a second-level cache.

|=======================================================================


Alternatively, you can specify the shared cache mode by setting the
`javax.persistence.sharedCache.mode` property to one of the shared cache
mode settings:

[source,java]
----
EntityManagerFactory emf =
    Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory(
        "myExamplePU", new Properties().add(
            "javax.persistence.sharedCache.mode", "ENABLE_SELECTIVE"));
----

[[GKJDK]][[setting-the-cache-retrieval-and-store-modes]]

=== Setting the Cache Retrieval and Store Modes

If you have enabled the second-level cache for a persistence unit by
setting the shared cache mode, you can further modify the behavior of
the second-level cache by setting the
`javax.persistence.cache.retrieveMode` and
`javax.persistence.cache.storeMode` properties. You can set these
properties at the persistence context level by passing the property name
and value to the `EntityManager.setProperty` method, or you can set them
on a per-`EntityManager` operation (`EntityManager.find` or
`EntityManager.refresh`) or on a per-query level.

[[GKJDR]][[cache-retrieval-mode]]

==== Cache Retrieval Mode

The cache retrieval mode, set by the `javax.persistence.retrieveMode`
property, controls how data is read from the cache for calls to the
`EntityManager.find` method and from queries.

You can set the `retrieveMode` property to one of the constants defined
by the `javax.persistence.CacheRetrieveMode` enumerated type, either
`USE` (the default) or `BYPASS`.

When the property is set to `USE`, data is retrieved from the
second-level cache, if available. If the data is not in the cache, the
persistence provider will read it from the database.

When the property is set to `BYPASS`, the second-level cache is bypassed
and a call to the database is made to retrieve the data.

[[GKJDD]][[cache-store-mode]]

==== Cache Store Mode

The cache store mode, set by the `javax.persistence.storeMode` property,
controls how data is stored in the cache.

The `storeMode` property can be set to one of the constants defined by
the `javax.persistence.CacheStoreMode` enumerated type: either `USE`
(the default), `BYPASS`, or `REFRESH`.

When the property is set to `USE`, the cache data is created or updated
when data is read from or committed to the database. If data is already
in the cache, setting the store mode to `USE` will not force a refresh
when data is read from the database.

When the property is set to `BYPASS`, data read from or committed to the
database is not inserted or updated in the cache. That is, the cache is
unchanged.

When the property is set to `REFRESH`, the cache data is created or
updated when data is read from or committed to the database, and a
refresh is forced on data in the cache upon database reads.

[[GKJDS]][[setting-the-cache-retrieval-or-store-mode]]

==== Setting the Cache Retrieval or Store Mode

To set the cache retrieval or store mode for the persistence context,
call the `EntityManager.setProperty` method with the property name and
value pair:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
em.setProperty("javax.persistence.cache.storeMode", "BYPASS");
----

To set the cache retrieval or store mode when calling the
`EntityManager.find` or `EntityManager.refresh` methods, first create a
`Map<String, Object>` instance and add a name/value pair as follows:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<String, Object>();
props.put("javax.persistence.cache.retrieveMode", "BYPASS");
String personPK = ...;
Person person = em.find(Person.class, personPK, props);
----


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

The cache retrieval mode is ignored when calling the
`EntityManager.refresh` method, as calls to `refresh` always result in
data being read from the database, not the cache.

|=======================================================================


To set the retrieval or store mode when using queries, call the
`Query.setHint` or `TypedQuery.setHint` methods, depending on the type
of query:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
CriteriaQuery<Person> cq = ...;
TypedQuery<Person> q = em.createQuery(cq);
q.setHint("javax.persistence.cache.storeMode", "REFRESH");
...
----

Setting the store or retrieve mode in a query or when calling the
`EntityManager.find` or `EntityManager.refresh` method overrides the
setting of the entity manager.

[[GKJEB]][[controlling-the-second-level-cache-programmatically]]

=== Controlling the Second-Level Cache Programmatically

The `javax.persistence.Cache` interface defines methods for interacting
with the second-level cache programmatically.

[[CHDEECCF]][[overview-of-the-javax.persistence.cache-interface]]

==== Overview of the javax.persistence.Cache Interface

The `Cache` interface defines methods to do the following:

* Check whether a particular entity has cached data
* Remove a particular entity from the cache
* Remove all instances (and instances of subclasses) of an entity class
from the cache
* Clear the cache of all entity data


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

If the second-level cache has been disabled, calls to the `Cache`
interface's methods have no effect, except for `contains`, which will
always return `false`.

|=======================================================================


[[GKJDZ]][[checking-whether-an-entitys-data-is-cached]]

==== Checking whether an Entity's Data Is Cached

To find out whether a given entity is currently in the second-level
cache:

1.  Call the `Cache.contains` method . The `contains` method returns
`true` if the entity's data is cached, and `false` if the data is not in
the cache:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
String personPK = ...;
if (cache.contains(Person.class, personPK)) {
  // the data is cached
} else {
  // the data is NOT cached
}
----

[[GKJDQ]][[removing-an-entity-from-the-cache]]

==== Removing an Entity from the Cache

To remove a particular entity or all entities of a given type from the
second-level cache:

.  Call one of the `Cache.evict` methods .
..  To remove a particular entity from the cache, call the `evict` method and pass in the entity class and the primary key of the entity:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
String personPK = ...;
cache.evict(Person.class, personPK);
----
..  To remove all instances of a particular entity class, including subclasses, call the `evict` method and specify the entity class:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
cache.evict(Person.class);
----

All instances of the `Person` entity class will be removed from the
cache. If the `Person` entity has a subclass, `Student`, calls to the
above method will remove all instances of `Student` from the cache as
well.

[[GKJDA]][[removing-all-data-from-the-cache]]

==== Removing All Data from the Cache

To completely clear the second-level cache, call the `Cache.evictAll` method:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
cache.evictAll();
----

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/persistence-cache/persistence-cache002.adoc, after:

[[GKJJJ]][[specifying-the-cache-mode-settings-to-improve-performance]]

== Specifying the Cache Mode Settings to Improve Performance

To adjust the cache mode settings for a persistence unit, specify one of
the cache modes as the value of the `shared-cache-mode` element in the
`persistence.xml` deployment descriptor (shown in bold):

[source,xml]
----
<persistence-unit name="examplePU" transaction-type="JTA">
    <provider>org.eclipse.persistence.jpa.PersistenceProvider</provider>
    <jta-data-source>java:comp/DefaultDataSource</jta-data-source>
    <shared-cache-mode>DISABLE_SELECTIVE</shared-cache-mode>
</persistence-unit>
----


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

Because support for a second-level cache is not required by the Jakarta
Persistence specification, setting the second-level cache mode in
`persistence.xml` will have no effect when you use a persistence
provider that does not implement a second-level cache.

|=======================================================================


Alternatively, you can specify the shared cache mode by setting the
`jakarta.persistence.sharedCache.mode` property to one of the shared cache
mode settings:

[source,java]
----
EntityManagerFactory emf =
    Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory(
        "myExamplePU", new Properties().add(
            "jakarta.persistence.sharedCache.mode", "ENABLE_SELECTIVE"));
----

[[GKJDK]][[setting-the-cache-retrieval-and-store-modes]]

=== Setting the Cache Retrieval and Store Modes

If you have enabled the second-level cache for a persistence unit by
setting the shared cache mode, you can further modify the behavior of
the second-level cache by setting the
`jakarta.persistence.cache.retrieveMode` and
`jakarta.persistence.cache.storeMode` properties. You can set these
properties at the persistence context level by passing the property name
and value to the `EntityManager.setProperty` method, or you can set them
on a per-`EntityManager` operation (`EntityManager.find` or
`EntityManager.refresh`) or on a per-query level.

[[GKJDR]][[cache-retrieval-mode]]

==== Cache Retrieval Mode

The cache retrieval mode, set by the `jakarta.persistence.retrieveMode`
property, controls how data is read from the cache for calls to the
`EntityManager.find` method and from queries.

You can set the `retrieveMode` property to one of the constants defined
by the `jakarta.persistence.CacheRetrieveMode` enumerated type, either
`USE` (the default) or `BYPASS`.

When the property is set to `USE`, data is retrieved from the
second-level cache, if available. If the data is not in the cache, the
persistence provider will read it from the database.

When the property is set to `BYPASS`, the second-level cache is bypassed
and a call to the database is made to retrieve the data.

[[GKJDD]][[cache-store-mode]]

==== Cache Store Mode

The cache store mode, set by the `jakarta.persistence.storeMode` property,
controls how data is stored in the cache.

The `storeMode` property can be set to one of the constants defined by
the `jakarta.persistence.CacheStoreMode` enumerated type: either `USE`
(the default), `BYPASS`, or `REFRESH`.

When the property is set to `USE`, the cache data is created or updated
when data is read from or committed to the database. If data is already
in the cache, setting the store mode to `USE` will not force a refresh
when data is read from the database.

When the property is set to `BYPASS`, data read from or committed to the
database is not inserted or updated in the cache. That is, the cache is
unchanged.

When the property is set to `REFRESH`, the cache data is created or
updated when data is read from or committed to the database, and a
refresh is forced on data in the cache upon database reads.

[[GKJDS]][[setting-the-cache-retrieval-or-store-mode]]

==== Setting the Cache Retrieval or Store Mode

To set the cache retrieval or store mode for the persistence context,
call the `EntityManager.setProperty` method with the property name and
value pair:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
em.setProperty("jakarta.persistence.cache.storeMode", "BYPASS");
----

To set the cache retrieval or store mode when calling the
`EntityManager.find` or `EntityManager.refresh` methods, first create a
`Map<String, Object>` instance and add a name/value pair as follows:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<String, Object>();
props.put("jakarta.persistence.cache.retrieveMode", "BYPASS");
String personPK = ...;
Person person = em.find(Person.class, personPK, props);
----


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

The cache retrieval mode is ignored when calling the
`EntityManager.refresh` method, as calls to `refresh` always result in
data being read from the database, not the cache.

|=======================================================================


To set the retrieval or store mode when using queries, call the
`Query.setHint` or `TypedQuery.setHint` methods, depending on the type
of query:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
CriteriaQuery<Person> cq = ...;
TypedQuery<Person> q = em.createQuery(cq);
q.setHint("jakarta.persistence.cache.storeMode", "REFRESH");
...
----

Setting the store or retrieve mode in a query or when calling the
`EntityManager.find` or `EntityManager.refresh` method overrides the
setting of the entity manager.

[[GKJEB]][[controlling-the-second-level-cache-programmatically]]

=== Controlling the Second-Level Cache Programmatically

The `jakarta.persistence.Cache` interface defines methods for interacting
with the second-level cache programmatically.

[[CHDEECCF]][[overview-of-the-jakarta.persistence.cache-interface]]

==== Overview of the jakarta.persistence.Cache Interface

The `Cache` interface defines methods to do the following:

* Check whether a particular entity has cached data
* Remove a particular entity from the cache
* Remove all instances (and instances of subclasses) of an entity class
from the cache
* Clear the cache of all entity data


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
Note:

If the second-level cache has been disabled, calls to the `Cache`
interface's methods have no effect, except for `contains`, which will
always return `false`.

|=======================================================================


[[GKJDZ]][[checking-whether-an-entitys-data-is-cached]]

==== Checking whether an Entity's Data Is Cached

To find out whether a given entity is currently in the second-level
cache:

1.  Call the `Cache.contains` method . The `contains` method returns
`true` if the entity's data is cached, and `false` if the data is not in
the cache:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
String personPK = ...;
if (cache.contains(Person.class, personPK)) {
  // the data is cached
} else {
  // the data is NOT cached
}
----

[[GKJDQ]][[removing-an-entity-from-the-cache]]

==== Removing an Entity from the Cache

To remove a particular entity or all entities of a given type from the
second-level cache:

.  Call one of the `Cache.evict` methods .
..  To remove a particular entity from the cache, call the `evict` method and pass in the entity class and the primary key of the entity:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
String personPK = ...;
cache.evict(Person.class, personPK);
----
..  To remove all instances of a particular entity class, including subclasses, call the `evict` method and specify the entity class:
+
[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
cache.evict(Person.class);
----

All instances of the `Person` entity class will be removed from the
cache. If the `Person` entity has a subclass, `Student`, calls to the
above method will remove all instances of `Student` from the cache as
well.

[[GKJDA]][[removing-all-data-from-the-cache]]

==== Removing All Data from the Cache

To completely clear the second-level cache, call the `Cache.evictAll` method:

[source,java]
----
EntityManager em = ...;
Cache cache = em.getEntityManagerFactory().getCache();
cache.evictAll();
----
