src/main/asciidoc/persistence-intro/persistence-intro003.adoc, before:

[[BNBQN]][[entity-inheritance]]

== Entity Inheritance

Entities support class inheritance, polymorphic associations, and
polymorphic queries. Entity classes can extend non-entity classes, and
non-entity classes can extend entity classes. Entity classes can be both
abstract and concrete.

The `roster` example application demonstrates entity inheritance, as
described in link:#GIQRF[Entity
Inheritance in the roster Application].

[[BNBQO]][[abstract-entities]]

=== Abstract Entities

An abstract class may be declared an entity by decorating the class with
`@Entity`. Abstract entities are like concrete entities but cannot be
instantiated.

Abstract entities can be queried just like concrete entities. If an
abstract entity is the target of a query, the query operates on all the
concrete subclasses of the abstract entity:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
public abstract class Employee {
    @Id
    protected Integer employeeId;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class FullTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Integer salary;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class PartTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Float hourlyWage;
}
----

[[BNBQP]][[mapped-superclasses]]

=== Mapped Superclasses

Entities may inherit from superclasses that contain persistent state and
mapping information but are not entities. That is, the superclass is not
decorated with the `@Entity` annotation and is not mapped as an entity
by the Jakarta Persistence provider. These superclasses are most often used
when you have state and mapping information common to multiple entity
classes.

Mapped superclasses are specified by decorating the class with the
annotation `javax.persistence.MappedSuperclass`:

[source,java]
----
@MappedSuperclass
public class Employee {
    @Id
    protected Integer employeeId;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class FullTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Integer salary;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class PartTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Float hourlyWage;
    ...
}
----

Mapped superclasses cannot be queried and cannot be used in
`EntityManager` or `Query` operations. You must use entity subclasses of
the mapped superclass in `EntityManager` or `Query` operations. Mapped
superclasses can't be targets of entity relationships. Mapped
superclasses can be abstract or concrete.

Mapped superclasses do not have any corresponding tables in the
underlying datastore. Entities that inherit from the mapped superclass
define the table mappings. For instance, in the preceding code sample,
the underlying tables would be `FULLTIMEEMPLOYEE` and
`PARTTIMEEMPLOYEE`, but there is no `EMPLOYEE` table.

[[BNBQQ]][[non-entity-superclasses]]

=== Non-Entity Superclasses

Entities may have non-entity superclasses, and these superclasses can be
either abstract or concrete. The state of non-entity superclasses is
nonpersistent, and any state inherited from the non-entity superclass by
an entity class is nonpersistent. Non-entity superclasses may not be
used in `EntityManager` or `Query` operations. Any mapping or
relationship annotations in non-entity superclasses are ignored.

[[BNBQR]][[entity-inheritance-mapping-strategies]]

=== Entity Inheritance Mapping Strategies

You can configure how the Jakarta Persistence provider maps inherited
entities to the underlying datastore by decorating the root class of the
hierarchy with the annotation `javax.persistence.Inheritance`. The
following mapping strategies are used to map the entity data to the
underlying database:

* A single table per class hierarchy
* A table per concrete entity class
* A "join" strategy, whereby fields or properties that are specific to a
subclass are mapped to a different table than the fields or properties
that are common to the parent class

The strategy is configured by setting the `strategy` element of
`@Inheritance` to one of the options defined in the
`javax.persistence.InheritanceType` enumerated type:

[source,java]
----
public enum InheritanceType {
    SINGLE_TABLE,
    JOINED,
    TABLE_PER_CLASS
};
----

The default strategy, `InheritanceType.SINGLE_TABLE`, is used if the
`@Inheritance` annotation is not specified on the root class of the
entity hierarchy.

[[BNBQS]][[the-single-table-per-class-hierarchy-strategy]]

==== The Single Table per Class Hierarchy Strategy

With this strategy, which corresponds to the default
`InheritanceType.SINGLE_TABLE`, all classes in the hierarchy are mapped
to a single table in the database. This table has a discriminator column
containing a value that identifies the subclass to which the instance
represented by the row belongs.

The discriminator column, whose elements are shown in link:#BNBQT[Table
40-2], can be specified by using the
`javax.persistence.DiscriminatorColumn` annotation on the root of the
entity class hierarchy.

[[sthref160]][[BNBQT]]

*Table 40-2 @DiscriminatorColumn Elements*

[width="99%",cols="20%,20%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Type* |*Name* |*Description*
|`String` |`name` |The name of the column to be used as the
discriminator column. The default is `DTYPE`. This element is optional.

|`DiscriminatorType` |`discriminatorType` |The type of the column to be
used as a discriminator column. The default is
`DiscriminatorType.STRING`. This element is optional.

|`String` |`columnDefinition` |The SQL fragment to use when creating the
discriminator column. The default is generated by the Persistence
provider and is implementation-specific. This element is optional.

|`String` |`length` |The column length for `String`-based discriminator
types. This element is ignored for non-`String` discriminator types. The
default is 31. This element is optional.
|=======================================================================


The `javax.persistence.DiscriminatorType` enumerated type is used to set
the type of the discriminator column in the database by setting the
`discriminatorType` element of `@DiscriminatorColumn` to one of the
defined types. `DiscriminatorType` is defined as follows:

[source,java]
----
public enum DiscriminatorType {
    STRING,
    CHAR,
    INTEGER
};
----

If `@DiscriminatorColumn` is not specified on the root of the entity
hierarchy and a discriminator column is required, the Persistence
provider assumes a default column name of `DTYPE` and column type of
`DiscriminatorType.STRING`.

The `javax.persistence.DiscriminatorValue` annotation may be used to set
the value entered into the discriminator column for each entity in a
class hierarchy. You may decorate only concrete entity classes with
`@DiscriminatorValue`.

If `@DiscriminatorValue` is not specified on an entity in a class
hierarchy that uses a discriminator column, the Persistence provider
will provide a default, implementation-specific value. If the
`discriminatorType` element of `@DiscriminatorColumn` is
`DiscriminatorType.STRING`, the default value is the name of the entity.

This strategy provides good support for polymorphic relationships
between entities and queries that cover the entire entity class
hierarchy. However, this strategy requires the columns that contain the
state of subclasses to be nullable.

[[BNBQU]][[the-table-per-concrete-class-strategy]]

==== The Table per Concrete Class Strategy

In this strategy, which corresponds to
`InheritanceType.TABLE_PER_CLASS`, each concrete class is mapped to a
separate table in the database. All fields or properties in the class,
including inherited fields or properties, are mapped to columns in the
class's table in the database.

This strategy provides poor support for polymorphic relationships and
usually requires either SQL `UNION` queries or separate SQL queries for
each subclass for queries that cover the entire entity class hierarchy.

Support for this strategy is optional and may not be supported by all
Jakarta Persistence providers. The default Jakarta Persistence
provider in GlassFish Server does not support this strategy.

[[BNBQV]][[the-joined-subclass-strategy]]

==== The Joined Subclass Strategy

In this strategy, which corresponds to `InheritanceType.JOINED`, the
root of the class hierarchy is represented by a single table, and each
subclass has a separate table that contains only those fields specific
to that subclass. That is, the subclass table does not contain columns
for inherited fields or properties. The subclass table also has a column
or columns that represent its primary key, which is a foreign key to the
primary key of the superclass table.

This strategy provides good support for polymorphic relationships but
requires one or more join operations to be performed when instantiating
entity subclasses. This may result in poor performance for extensive
class hierarchies. Similarly, queries that cover the entire class
hierarchy require join operations between the subclass tables, resulting
in decreased performance.

Some Jakarta Persistence providers, including the default provider in
GlassFish Server, require a discriminator column that corresponds to the
root entity when using the joined subclass strategy. If you are not
using automatic table creation in your application, make sure that the
database table is set up correctly for the discriminator column
defaults, or use the `@DiscriminatorColumn` annotation to match your
database schema. For information on discriminator columns, see
link:#BNBQS[The Single Table per Class Hierarchy Strategy].

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/persistence-intro/persistence-intro003.adoc, after:

[[BNBQN]][[entity-inheritance]]

== Entity Inheritance

Entities support class inheritance, polymorphic associations, and
polymorphic queries. Entity classes can extend non-entity classes, and
non-entity classes can extend entity classes. Entity classes can be both
abstract and concrete.

The `roster` example application demonstrates entity inheritance, as
described in link:#GIQRF[Entity
Inheritance in the roster Application].

[[BNBQO]][[abstract-entities]]

=== Abstract Entities

An abstract class may be declared an entity by decorating the class with
`@Entity`. Abstract entities are like concrete entities but cannot be
instantiated.

Abstract entities can be queried just like concrete entities. If an
abstract entity is the target of a query, the query operates on all the
concrete subclasses of the abstract entity:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
public abstract class Employee {
    @Id
    protected Integer employeeId;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class FullTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Integer salary;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class PartTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Float hourlyWage;
}
----

[[BNBQP]][[mapped-superclasses]]

=== Mapped Superclasses

Entities may inherit from superclasses that contain persistent state and
mapping information but are not entities. That is, the superclass is not
decorated with the `@Entity` annotation and is not mapped as an entity
by the Jakarta Persistence provider. These superclasses are most often used
when you have state and mapping information common to multiple entity
classes.

Mapped superclasses are specified by decorating the class with the
annotation `jakarta.persistence.MappedSuperclass`:

[source,java]
----
@MappedSuperclass
public class Employee {
    @Id
    protected Integer employeeId;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class FullTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Integer salary;
    ...
}
@Entity
public class PartTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    protected Float hourlyWage;
    ...
}
----

Mapped superclasses cannot be queried and cannot be used in
`EntityManager` or `Query` operations. You must use entity subclasses of
the mapped superclass in `EntityManager` or `Query` operations. Mapped
superclasses can't be targets of entity relationships. Mapped
superclasses can be abstract or concrete.

Mapped superclasses do not have any corresponding tables in the
underlying datastore. Entities that inherit from the mapped superclass
define the table mappings. For instance, in the preceding code sample,
the underlying tables would be `FULLTIMEEMPLOYEE` and
`PARTTIMEEMPLOYEE`, but there is no `EMPLOYEE` table.

[[BNBQQ]][[non-entity-superclasses]]

=== Non-Entity Superclasses

Entities may have non-entity superclasses, and these superclasses can be
either abstract or concrete. The state of non-entity superclasses is
nonpersistent, and any state inherited from the non-entity superclass by
an entity class is nonpersistent. Non-entity superclasses may not be
used in `EntityManager` or `Query` operations. Any mapping or
relationship annotations in non-entity superclasses are ignored.

[[BNBQR]][[entity-inheritance-mapping-strategies]]

=== Entity Inheritance Mapping Strategies

You can configure how the Jakarta Persistence provider maps inherited
entities to the underlying datastore by decorating the root class of the
hierarchy with the annotation `jakarta.persistence.Inheritance`. The
following mapping strategies are used to map the entity data to the
underlying database:

* A single table per class hierarchy
* A table per concrete entity class
* A "join" strategy, whereby fields or properties that are specific to a
subclass are mapped to a different table than the fields or properties
that are common to the parent class

The strategy is configured by setting the `strategy` element of
`@Inheritance` to one of the options defined in the
`jakarta.persistence.InheritanceType` enumerated type:

[source,java]
----
public enum InheritanceType {
    SINGLE_TABLE,
    JOINED,
    TABLE_PER_CLASS
};
----

The default strategy, `InheritanceType.SINGLE_TABLE`, is used if the
`@Inheritance` annotation is not specified on the root class of the
entity hierarchy.

[[BNBQS]][[the-single-table-per-class-hierarchy-strategy]]

==== The Single Table per Class Hierarchy Strategy

With this strategy, which corresponds to the default
`InheritanceType.SINGLE_TABLE`, all classes in the hierarchy are mapped
to a single table in the database. This table has a discriminator column
containing a value that identifies the subclass to which the instance
represented by the row belongs.

The discriminator column, whose elements are shown in link:#BNBQT[Table
40-2], can be specified by using the
`jakarta.persistence.DiscriminatorColumn` annotation on the root of the
entity class hierarchy.

[[sthref160]][[BNBQT]]

*Table 40-2 @DiscriminatorColumn Elements*

[width="99%",cols="20%,20%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Type* |*Name* |*Description*
|`String` |`name` |The name of the column to be used as the
discriminator column. The default is `DTYPE`. This element is optional.

|`DiscriminatorType` |`discriminatorType` |The type of the column to be
used as a discriminator column. The default is
`DiscriminatorType.STRING`. This element is optional.

|`String` |`columnDefinition` |The SQL fragment to use when creating the
discriminator column. The default is generated by the Persistence
provider and is implementation-specific. This element is optional.

|`String` |`length` |The column length for `String`-based discriminator
types. This element is ignored for non-`String` discriminator types. The
default is 31. This element is optional.
|=======================================================================


The `jakarta.persistence.DiscriminatorType` enumerated type is used to set
the type of the discriminator column in the database by setting the
`discriminatorType` element of `@DiscriminatorColumn` to one of the
defined types. `DiscriminatorType` is defined as follows:

[source,java]
----
public enum DiscriminatorType {
    STRING,
    CHAR,
    INTEGER
};
----

If `@DiscriminatorColumn` is not specified on the root of the entity
hierarchy and a discriminator column is required, the Persistence
provider assumes a default column name of `DTYPE` and column type of
`DiscriminatorType.STRING`.

The `jakarta.persistence.DiscriminatorValue` annotation may be used to set
the value entered into the discriminator column for each entity in a
class hierarchy. You may decorate only concrete entity classes with
`@DiscriminatorValue`.

If `@DiscriminatorValue` is not specified on an entity in a class
hierarchy that uses a discriminator column, the Persistence provider
will provide a default, implementation-specific value. If the
`discriminatorType` element of `@DiscriminatorColumn` is
`DiscriminatorType.STRING`, the default value is the name of the entity.

This strategy provides good support for polymorphic relationships
between entities and queries that cover the entire entity class
hierarchy. However, this strategy requires the columns that contain the
state of subclasses to be nullable.

[[BNBQU]][[the-table-per-concrete-class-strategy]]

==== The Table per Concrete Class Strategy

In this strategy, which corresponds to
`InheritanceType.TABLE_PER_CLASS`, each concrete class is mapped to a
separate table in the database. All fields or properties in the class,
including inherited fields or properties, are mapped to columns in the
class's table in the database.

This strategy provides poor support for polymorphic relationships and
usually requires either SQL `UNION` queries or separate SQL queries for
each subclass for queries that cover the entire entity class hierarchy.

Support for this strategy is optional and may not be supported by all
Jakarta Persistence providers. The default Jakarta Persistence
provider in GlassFish Server does not support this strategy.

[[BNBQV]][[the-joined-subclass-strategy]]

==== The Joined Subclass Strategy

In this strategy, which corresponds to `InheritanceType.JOINED`, the
root of the class hierarchy is represented by a single table, and each
subclass has a separate table that contains only those fields specific
to that subclass. That is, the subclass table does not contain columns
for inherited fields or properties. The subclass table also has a column
or columns that represent its primary key, which is a foreign key to the
primary key of the superclass table.

This strategy provides good support for polymorphic relationships but
requires one or more join operations to be performed when instantiating
entity subclasses. This may result in poor performance for extensive
class hierarchies. Similarly, queries that cover the entire class
hierarchy require join operations between the subclass tables, resulting
in decreased performance.

Some Jakarta Persistence providers, including the default provider in
GlassFish Server, require a discriminator column that corresponds to the
root entity when using the joined subclass strategy. If you are not
using automatic table creation in your application, make sure that the
database table is set up correctly for the discriminator column
defaults, or use the `@DiscriminatorColumn` annotation to match your
database schema. For information on discriminator columns, see
link:#BNBQS[The Single Table per Class Hierarchy Strategy].
