src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/faces-page-core/faces-page-core002.adoc, before:

== Registering Listeners on Components

An application developer can implement listeners as classes or as managed bean methods.
If a listener is a managed bean method, the page author references the method from either the component's `valueChangeListener` attribute or its `actionListener` attribute.
If the listener is a class, the page author can reference the listener from either an `f:valueChangeListener` tag or an `f:actionListener` tag and nest the tag inside the component tag to register the listener on the component.

xref:jsf-page-core/jsf-page-core.adoc#_referencing_a_method_that_handles_an_action_event[Referencing a Method That Handles an Action Event] and xref:jsf-page-core/jsf-page-core.adoc#_referencing_a_method_that_handles_a_value_change_event[Referencing a Method That Handles a Value-Change Event] explain how a page author uses the `valueChangeListener` and `actionListener` attributes to reference managed bean methods that handle events.

This section explains how to register a `NameChanged` value-change listener and a `BookChange` action listener implementation on components.
The Duke's Bookstore case study includes both of these listeners.

=== Registering a Value-Change Listener on a Component

A page author can register a `ValueChangeListener` implementation on a component that implements `EditableValueHolder` by nesting an `f:valueChangeListener` tag within the component's tag on the page.
The `f:valueChangeListener` tag supports the attributes shown in <<_attributes_for_the_fvaluechangelistener_tag>>, one of which must be used.

[[_attributes_for_the_fvaluechangelistener_tag]]
.Attributes for the f:valueChangeListener Tag
[width="60%",cols="10%,50%"]
|===
|Attribute |Description

|`type` |References the fully qualified class name of a `ValueChangeListener` implementation.
Can accept a literal or a value expression.

|`binding` |References an object that implements `ValueChangeListener`.
Can accept only a value expression, which must point to a managed bean property that accepts and returns a `ValueChangeListener` implementation.
|===

The following example shows a value-change listener registered on a component:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="name"
             size="30"
             value="#{cashierBean.name}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCustomerName}">
    <f:valueChangeListener
        type="ee.jakarta.tutorial.dukesbookstore.listeners.NameChanged" />
</h:inputText>
----

In the example, the core tag `type` attribute specifies the custom `NameChanged` listener as the `ValueChangeListener` implementation registered on the `name` component.

After this component tag is processed and local values have been validated, its corresponding component instance will queue the `ValueChangeEvent` associated with the specified `ValueChangeListener` to the component.

The `binding` attribute is used to bind a `ValueChangeListener` implementation to a managed bean property.
This attribute works in a similar way to the `binding` attribute supported by the standard converter tags.
See xref:jsf-custom/jsf-custom.adoc#_binding_component_values_and_instances_to_managed_bean_properties[Binding Component Values and Instances to Managed Bean Properties] for more information.

=== Registering an Action Listener on a Component

A page author can register an `ActionListener` implementation on a command component by nesting an `f:actionListener` tag within the component's tag on the page.
Similarly to the `f:valueChangeListener` tag, the `f:actionListener` tag supports both the `type` and `binding` attributes.
One of these attributes must be used to reference the action listener.

Here is an example of an `h:commandLink` tag that references an `ActionListener` implementation:

[source,xml]
----
<h:commandLink id="Duke" action="bookstore">
    <f:actionListener
        type="ee.jakarta.tutorial.dukesbookstore.listeners.LinkBookChangeListener" />
    <h:outputText value="#{bundle.Book201}"/>
</h:commandLink>
----

The `type` attribute of the `f:actionListener` tag specifies the fully qualified class name of the `ActionListener` implementation.
Similarly to the `f:valueChangeListener` tag, the `f:actionListener` tag also supports the `binding` attribute.
See xref:jsf-custom/jsf-custom.adoc#_binding_converters_listeners_and_validators_to_managed_bean_properties[Binding Converters, Listeners, and Validators to Managed Bean Properties] for more information about binding listeners to managed bean properties.

In addition to the `actionListener` tag that allows you register a custom listener onto a component, the core tag library includes the `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag.
You use this tag to register a special action listener onto the `ActionSource` instance associated with a component.
When the component is activated, the listener will store the object referenced by the tag's `value` attribute into the object referenced by the tag's `target` attribute.

The `bookcatalog.xhtml` page of the Duke's Bookstore application uses `f:setPropertyActionListener` with two components: the `h:commandLink` component used to link to the `bookdetails.xhtml` page and the `h:commandButton` component used to add a book to the cart:

[source,xml]
----
<h:dataTable id="books"
    value="#{store.books}"
    var="book"
    headerClass="list-header"
    styleClass="list-background"
    rowClasses="list-row-even, list-row-odd"
    border="1"
    summary="#{bundle.BookCatalog}" >
    ...
    <h:column>
        <f:facet name="header">
            <h:outputText value="#{bundle.ItemTitle}"/>
        </f:facet>
        <h:commandLink action="#{catalog.details}"
                       value="#{book.title}">
            <f:setPropertyActionListener target="#{requestScope.book}"
                                         value="#{book}"/>
        </h:commandLink>
    </h:column>
    ...
    <h:column>
        <f:facet name="header">
            <h:outputText value="#{bundle.CartAdd}"/>
        </f:facet>
        <h:commandButton id="add"
                         action="#{catalog.add}"
                         value="#{bundle.CartAdd}">
            <f:setPropertyActionListener target="#{requestScope.book}"
                                         value="#{book}"/>
        </h:commandButton>
    </h:column>
    ...
</h:dataTable>
----

The `h:commandLink` and `h:commandButton` tags are within an `h:dataTable` tag, which iterates over the list of books.
The `var` attribute refers to a single book in the list of books.

The object referenced by the `var` attribute of an `h:dataTable` tag is in page scope.
However, in this case you need to put this object into request scope so that when the user activates the `commandLink` component to go to `bookdetails.xhtml` or activates the `commandButton` component to go to `bookcatalog.xhtml`, the book data is available to those pages.
Therefore, the `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag is used to set the current book object into request scope when the `commandLink` or `commandButton` component is activated.

In the preceding example, the `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag's `value` attribute references the `book` object.
The `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag's `target` attribute references the value expression `requestScope.book`, which is where the `book` object referenced by the `value` attribute is stored when the `commandLink` or the `commandButton` component is activated.

Commit message:

JETUT-120 rename links within web module jsf -> faces

src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/faces-page-core/faces-page-core002.adoc, after:

== Registering Listeners on Components

An application developer can implement listeners as classes or as managed bean methods.
If a listener is a managed bean method, the page author references the method from either the component's `valueChangeListener` attribute or its `actionListener` attribute.
If the listener is a class, the page author can reference the listener from either an `f:valueChangeListener` tag or an `f:actionListener` tag and nest the tag inside the component tag to register the listener on the component.

xref:faces-page-core/faces-page-core.adoc#_referencing_a_method_that_handles_an_action_event[Referencing a Method That Handles an Action Event] and xref:faces-page-core/faces-page-core.adoc#_referencing_a_method_that_handles_a_value_change_event[Referencing a Method That Handles a Value-Change Event] explain how a page author uses the `valueChangeListener` and `actionListener` attributes to reference managed bean methods that handle events.

This section explains how to register a `NameChanged` value-change listener and a `BookChange` action listener implementation on components.
The Duke's Bookstore case study includes both of these listeners.

=== Registering a Value-Change Listener on a Component

A page author can register a `ValueChangeListener` implementation on a component that implements `EditableValueHolder` by nesting an `f:valueChangeListener` tag within the component's tag on the page.
The `f:valueChangeListener` tag supports the attributes shown in <<_attributes_for_the_fvaluechangelistener_tag>>, one of which must be used.

[[_attributes_for_the_fvaluechangelistener_tag]]
.Attributes for the f:valueChangeListener Tag
[width="60%",cols="10%,50%"]
|===
|Attribute |Description

|`type` |References the fully qualified class name of a `ValueChangeListener` implementation.
Can accept a literal or a value expression.

|`binding` |References an object that implements `ValueChangeListener`.
Can accept only a value expression, which must point to a managed bean property that accepts and returns a `ValueChangeListener` implementation.
|===

The following example shows a value-change listener registered on a component:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="name"
             size="30"
             value="#{cashierBean.name}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCustomerName}">
    <f:valueChangeListener
        type="ee.jakarta.tutorial.dukesbookstore.listeners.NameChanged" />
</h:inputText>
----

In the example, the core tag `type` attribute specifies the custom `NameChanged` listener as the `ValueChangeListener` implementation registered on the `name` component.

After this component tag is processed and local values have been validated, its corresponding component instance will queue the `ValueChangeEvent` associated with the specified `ValueChangeListener` to the component.

The `binding` attribute is used to bind a `ValueChangeListener` implementation to a managed bean property.
This attribute works in a similar way to the `binding` attribute supported by the standard converter tags.
See xref:faces-custom/faces-custom.adoc#_binding_component_values_and_instances_to_managed_bean_properties[Binding Component Values and Instances to Managed Bean Properties] for more information.

=== Registering an Action Listener on a Component

A page author can register an `ActionListener` implementation on a command component by nesting an `f:actionListener` tag within the component's tag on the page.
Similarly to the `f:valueChangeListener` tag, the `f:actionListener` tag supports both the `type` and `binding` attributes.
One of these attributes must be used to reference the action listener.

Here is an example of an `h:commandLink` tag that references an `ActionListener` implementation:

[source,xml]
----
<h:commandLink id="Duke" action="bookstore">
    <f:actionListener
        type="ee.jakarta.tutorial.dukesbookstore.listeners.LinkBookChangeListener" />
    <h:outputText value="#{bundle.Book201}"/>
</h:commandLink>
----

The `type` attribute of the `f:actionListener` tag specifies the fully qualified class name of the `ActionListener` implementation.
Similarly to the `f:valueChangeListener` tag, the `f:actionListener` tag also supports the `binding` attribute.
See xref:faces-custom/faces-custom.adoc#_binding_converters_listeners_and_validators_to_managed_bean_properties[Binding Converters, Listeners, and Validators to Managed Bean Properties] for more information about binding listeners to managed bean properties.

In addition to the `actionListener` tag that allows you register a custom listener onto a component, the core tag library includes the `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag.
You use this tag to register a special action listener onto the `ActionSource` instance associated with a component.
When the component is activated, the listener will store the object referenced by the tag's `value` attribute into the object referenced by the tag's `target` attribute.

The `bookcatalog.xhtml` page of the Duke's Bookstore application uses `f:setPropertyActionListener` with two components: the `h:commandLink` component used to link to the `bookdetails.xhtml` page and the `h:commandButton` component used to add a book to the cart:

[source,xml]
----
<h:dataTable id="books"
    value="#{store.books}"
    var="book"
    headerClass="list-header"
    styleClass="list-background"
    rowClasses="list-row-even, list-row-odd"
    border="1"
    summary="#{bundle.BookCatalog}" >
    ...
    <h:column>
        <f:facet name="header">
            <h:outputText value="#{bundle.ItemTitle}"/>
        </f:facet>
        <h:commandLink action="#{catalog.details}"
                       value="#{book.title}">
            <f:setPropertyActionListener target="#{requestScope.book}"
                                         value="#{book}"/>
        </h:commandLink>
    </h:column>
    ...
    <h:column>
        <f:facet name="header">
            <h:outputText value="#{bundle.CartAdd}"/>
        </f:facet>
        <h:commandButton id="add"
                         action="#{catalog.add}"
                         value="#{bundle.CartAdd}">
            <f:setPropertyActionListener target="#{requestScope.book}"
                                         value="#{book}"/>
        </h:commandButton>
    </h:column>
    ...
</h:dataTable>
----

The `h:commandLink` and `h:commandButton` tags are within an `h:dataTable` tag, which iterates over the list of books.
The `var` attribute refers to a single book in the list of books.

The object referenced by the `var` attribute of an `h:dataTable` tag is in page scope.
However, in this case you need to put this object into request scope so that when the user activates the `commandLink` component to go to `bookdetails.xhtml` or activates the `commandButton` component to go to `bookcatalog.xhtml`, the book data is available to those pages.
Therefore, the `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag is used to set the current book object into request scope when the `commandLink` or `commandButton` component is activated.

In the preceding example, the `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag's `value` attribute references the `book` object.
The `f:setPropertyActionListener` tag's `target` attribute references the value expression `requestScope.book`, which is where the `book` object referenced by the `value` attribute is stored when the `commandLink` or the `commandButton` component is activated.
