src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/faces-page-core/faces-page-core004.adoc, before:

== Referencing a Managed Bean Method

A component tag has a set of attributes for referencing managed bean methods that can perform certain functions for the component associated with the tag.
These attributes are summarized in <<_component_tag_attributes_that_reference_managed_bean_methods>>.

[[_component_tag_attributes_that_reference_managed_bean_methods]]
.Component Tag Attributes That Reference Managed Bean Methods
[width="60%",cols="10%,50%"]
|===
|Attribute |Function

|`action` |Refers to a managed bean method that performs navigation processing for the component and returns a logical outcome `String`

|`actionListener` |Refers to a managed bean method that handles action events

|`validator` |Refers to a managed bean method that performs validation on the component's value

|`valueChangeListener` |Refers to a managed bean method that handles value-change events
|===

Only components that implement `ActionSource` can use the `action` and `actionListener` attributes.
Only components that implement `EditableValueHolder` can use the `validator` or `valueChangeListener` attributes.

The component tag refers to a managed bean method using a method expression as a value of one of the attributes.
The method referenced by an attribute must follow a particular signature, which is defined by the tag attribute's definition in the https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/3.0/vdldoc/[Jakarta Faces Facelets Tag Library documentation^].
For example, the definition of the `validator` attribute of the `inputText` tag is the following:

[source,java]
----
void validate(jakarta.faces.context.FacesContext,
              jakarta.faces.component.UIComponent, java.lang.Object)
----

The following sections give examples of how to use the attributes.

=== Referencing a Method That Performs Navigation

If your page includes a component, such as a button or a link, that causes the application to navigate to another page when the component is activated, the tag corresponding to this component must include an `action` attribute.
This attribute does one of the following:

* Specifies a logical outcome `String` that tells the application which page to access next

* References a managed bean method that performs some processing and returns a logical outcome `String`

The following example shows how to reference a navigation method:

[source,xml]
----
<h:commandButton value="#{bundle.Submit}"
                 action="#{cashierBean.submit}" />
----

See xref:jsf-develop/jsf-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_handle_navigation[Writing a Method to Handle Navigation] for information on how to write such a method.

=== Referencing a Method That Handles an Action Event

If a component on your page generates an action event, and if that event is handled by a managed bean method, you refer to the method by using the component's `actionListener` attribute.

The following example shows how such a method could be referenced:

[source,xml]
----
<h:commandLink id="Duke" action="bookstore"
               actionListener="#{actionBean.chooseBookFromLink}">
----

The `actionListener` attribute of this component tag references the `chooseBookFromLink` method using a method expression.
The `chooseBookFromLink` method handles the event when the user clicks the link rendered by this component.
See xref:jsf-develop/jsf-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_handle_an_action_event[Writing a Method to Handle an Action Event] for information on how to write such a method.

=== Referencing a Method That Performs Validation

If the input of one of the components on your page is validated by a managed bean method, refer to the method from the component's tag by using the `validator` attribute.

The following simplified example from xref:cdi:cdi-basicexamples/cdi-basicexamples.adoc#_the_guessnumber_cdi_cdi_example[The guessnumber-cdi CDI Example] shows how to reference a method that performs validation on `inputGuess`, an input component:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="inputGuess"
    value="#{userNumberBean.userNumber}"
    required="true" size="3"
    disabled="#{userNumberBean.number eq userNumberBean.userNumber ...}"
    validator="#{userNumberBean.validateNumberRange}">
</h:inputText>
----

The managed bean method `validateNumberRange` verifies that the input value is within the valid range, which changes each time another guess is made.
See xref:jsf-develop/jsf-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_perform_validation[Writing a Method to Perform Validation] for information on how to write such a method.

=== Referencing a Method That Handles a Value-Change Event

If you want a component on your page to generate a value-change event and you want that event to be handled by a managed bean method instead of a `ValueChangeListener` implementation, you refer to the method by using the component's `valueChangeListener` attribute:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="name"
             size="30"
             value="#{cashierBean.name}"
             required="true"
             valueChangeListener="#{cashierBean.processValueChange}" />
</h:inputText>
----

The `valueChangeListener` attribute of this component tag references the `processValueChange` method of `CashierBean` by using a method expression.
The `processValueChange` method handles the event of a user entering a name in the input field rendered by this component.

xref:jsf-develop/jsf-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_handle_a_value_change_event[Writing a Method to Handle a Value-Change Event] describes how to implement a method that handles a `ValueChangeEvent`.

Commit message:

JETUT-120 rename links within web module jsf -> faces

src/main/antora/modules/web/pages/faces-page-core/faces-page-core004.adoc, after:

== Referencing a Managed Bean Method

A component tag has a set of attributes for referencing managed bean methods that can perform certain functions for the component associated with the tag.
These attributes are summarized in <<_component_tag_attributes_that_reference_managed_bean_methods>>.

[[_component_tag_attributes_that_reference_managed_bean_methods]]
.Component Tag Attributes That Reference Managed Bean Methods
[width="60%",cols="10%,50%"]
|===
|Attribute |Function

|`action` |Refers to a managed bean method that performs navigation processing for the component and returns a logical outcome `String`

|`actionListener` |Refers to a managed bean method that handles action events

|`validator` |Refers to a managed bean method that performs validation on the component's value

|`valueChangeListener` |Refers to a managed bean method that handles value-change events
|===

Only components that implement `ActionSource` can use the `action` and `actionListener` attributes.
Only components that implement `EditableValueHolder` can use the `validator` or `valueChangeListener` attributes.

The component tag refers to a managed bean method using a method expression as a value of one of the attributes.
The method referenced by an attribute must follow a particular signature, which is defined by the tag attribute's definition in the https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/3.0/vdldoc/[Jakarta Faces Facelets Tag Library documentation^].
For example, the definition of the `validator` attribute of the `inputText` tag is the following:

[source,java]
----
void validate(jakarta.faces.context.FacesContext,
              jakarta.faces.component.UIComponent, java.lang.Object)
----

The following sections give examples of how to use the attributes.

=== Referencing a Method That Performs Navigation

If your page includes a component, such as a button or a link, that causes the application to navigate to another page when the component is activated, the tag corresponding to this component must include an `action` attribute.
This attribute does one of the following:

* Specifies a logical outcome `String` that tells the application which page to access next

* References a managed bean method that performs some processing and returns a logical outcome `String`

The following example shows how to reference a navigation method:

[source,xml]
----
<h:commandButton value="#{bundle.Submit}"
                 action="#{cashierBean.submit}" />
----

See xref:faces-develop/faces-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_handle_navigation[Writing a Method to Handle Navigation] for information on how to write such a method.

=== Referencing a Method That Handles an Action Event

If a component on your page generates an action event, and if that event is handled by a managed bean method, you refer to the method by using the component's `actionListener` attribute.

The following example shows how such a method could be referenced:

[source,xml]
----
<h:commandLink id="Duke" action="bookstore"
               actionListener="#{actionBean.chooseBookFromLink}">
----

The `actionListener` attribute of this component tag references the `chooseBookFromLink` method using a method expression.
The `chooseBookFromLink` method handles the event when the user clicks the link rendered by this component.
See xref:faces-develop/faces-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_handle_an_action_event[Writing a Method to Handle an Action Event] for information on how to write such a method.

=== Referencing a Method That Performs Validation

If the input of one of the components on your page is validated by a managed bean method, refer to the method from the component's tag by using the `validator` attribute.

The following simplified example from xref:cdi:cdi-basicexamples/cdi-basicexamples.adoc#_the_guessnumber_cdi_cdi_example[The guessnumber-cdi CDI Example] shows how to reference a method that performs validation on `inputGuess`, an input component:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="inputGuess"
    value="#{userNumberBean.userNumber}"
    required="true" size="3"
    disabled="#{userNumberBean.number eq userNumberBean.userNumber ...}"
    validator="#{userNumberBean.validateNumberRange}">
</h:inputText>
----

The managed bean method `validateNumberRange` verifies that the input value is within the valid range, which changes each time another guess is made.
See xref:faces-develop/faces-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_perform_validation[Writing a Method to Perform Validation] for information on how to write such a method.

=== Referencing a Method That Handles a Value-Change Event

If you want a component on your page to generate a value-change event and you want that event to be handled by a managed bean method instead of a `ValueChangeListener` implementation, you refer to the method by using the component's `valueChangeListener` attribute:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="name"
             size="30"
             value="#{cashierBean.name}"
             required="true"
             valueChangeListener="#{cashierBean.processValueChange}" />
</h:inputText>
----

The `valueChangeListener` attribute of this component tag references the `processValueChange` method of `CashierBean` by using a method expression.
The `processValueChange` method handles the event of a user entering a name in the input field rendered by this component.

xref:faces-develop/faces-develop.adoc#_writing_a_method_to_handle_a_value_change_event[Writing a Method to Handle a Value-Change Event] describes how to implement a method that handles a `ValueChangeEvent`.
