src/main/jbake/content/bean-validation002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Using Bean Validation Constraints
next=bean-validation003.html
prev=bean-validation001.html
~~~~~~
# Using Bean Validation Constraints


[[GIRCZ]][[using-bean-validation-constraints]]

Using Bean Validation Constraints
---------------------------------

The Bean Validation model is supported by constraints in the form of
annotations placed on a field, method, or class of a JavaBeans
component, such as a managed bean.

Constraints can be built in or user defined. User-defined constraints
are called custom constraints. Several built-in constraints are
available in the `javax.validation.constraints` package.
link:#GKAGK[Table 23-1] lists all the built-in constraints. See
link:bean-validation-advanced001.html#GKFGX[Creating Custom Constraints]
for information on creating custom constraints.

[[sthref121]][[GKAGK]]

Table 23-1 Built-In Bean Validation Constraints

[width="99%",cols="22%,59%,18%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Constraint* |*Description* |*Example*
|`@AssertFalse` |The value of the field or property must be `false`. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@AssertFalse
boolean isUnsupported;
----

|`@AssertTrue` |The value of the field or property must be `true`. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@AssertTrue
boolean isActive;
----

|`@DecimalMax` |The value of the field or property must be a decimal
value lower than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@DecimalMax("30.00")
BigDecimal discount;
----

|`@DecimalMin` |The value of the field or property must be a decimal
value greater than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@DecimalMin("5.00")
BigDecimal discount;
----

|`@Digits` |The value of the field or property must be a number within a
specified range. The `integer` element specifies the maximum integral
digits for the number, and the `fraction` element specifies the maximum
fractional digits for the number. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Digits(integer=6, fraction=2)
BigDecimal price;
----

|`@Email` |The value of the field or property must be a valid email address. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Email
String emailaddress;
----

|`@Future` |The value of the field or property must be a date in the
future. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Future
Date eventDate;
----

|`@FutureOrPresent` |TThe value of the field or property must be a date or time in present or future. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FutureOrPresent
Time travelTime;

----
|`@Max` |The value of the field or property must be an integer value
lower than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Max(10)
int quantity;
----

|`@Min` |The value of the field or property must be an integer value
greater than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Min(5)
int quantity;
----
|`@Negative` |The value of the field or property must be a negative number. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Negative
int basementFloor;
----

|`@NegativeOrZero` |The value of the field or property must be negative or zero.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NegativeOrZero
int debtValue;
----
|`@NotBlank` |The value of the field or property must contain atleast one non-white space character.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NotBlank
String message;
----
|`@NotEmpty` |The value of the field or property must not be empty. The length of the characters or array, and the size of a collection or map are evaluated.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NotEmpty
String message;;
----
|`@NotNull` |The value of the field or property must not be null.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NotNull
String username;
----
|`@Null` |The value of the field or property must be null. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Null
String unusedString;
----

|`@Past` |The value of the field or property must be a date in the past.
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Past
Date birthday;
----
|`@PastOrPresent` |The value of the field or property must be a date or time in the past or present.
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@PastOrPresent
Date travelDate;
----
|`@Pattern` |The value of the field or property must match the regular
expression defined in the `regexp` element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Pattern(regexp="\\(\\d{3}\\)\\d{3}-\\d{4}")
String phoneNumber;
----

|`@Positive` |The value of the field or property must be a positive number.
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Positive
BigDecimal area;
----
----
|`@PositiveOrZero` |The value of the field or property must be a positive number or zero. .
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@PositiveOrZero
int totalGoals;
----

|`@Size` |The size of the field or property is evaluated and must match
the specified boundaries. If the field or property is a `String`, the
size of the string is evaluated. If the field or property is a
`Collection`, the size of the `Collection` is evaluated. If the field or
property is a `Map`, the size of the `Map` is evaluated. If the field or
property is an array, the size of the array is evaluated. Use one of the
optional `max` or `min` elements to specify the boundaries. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Size(min=2, max=240)
String briefMessage;
----

|=======================================================================


In the following example, a constraint is placed on a field using the
built-in `@NotNull` constraint:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public class Name {
    @NotNull
    private String firstname;

    @NotNull
    private String lastname;
    ...
}
----

You can also place more than one constraint on a single JavaBeans
component object. For example, you can place an additional constraint
for size of field on the `firstname` and the `lastname` fields:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public class Name {
    @NotNull
    @Size(min=1, max=16)
    private String firstname;

    @NotNull
    @Size(min=1, max=16)
    private String lastname;
    ...
}
----

The following example shows a method with a user-defined constraint that
checks user-defined constraint that checks for a predefined phone number pattern, such as a country specific phone number:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@USPhoneNumber
public String getPhone() {
    return phone;
}
----

For a built-in constraint, a default implementation is available. A
user-defined or custom constraint needs a validation implementation. In
the preceding example, the `@USPhoneNumber` custom constraint needs an
implementation class.

== Repeating Annotations

[[repeating_annotations]]

In Bean Validation 2.0, you can specify the same constraint several times on a validation target using repeating annotation:
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public class Account {

    @Max (value = 2000, groups = Default.class, message = "max.value")
    @Max (value = 5000, groups = GoldCustomer.class, message = "max.value")
    private long withdrawalAmount;
}

----
All in-built constraints from `javax .validation.constraints` package support repeatable annotations. Similarly, custom constraints can use `@Repeatable` annotation. In the following sample, depending on whether the group is `PeakHour` or `NonPeakHour`, the car instance is validated as either two passengers or three passengers based car, and then listed as eligible in the car pool lane:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
/**
 * Validate whether a car is eligible for car pool lane
 */
@Documented
@Constraint(validatedBy = CarPoolValidator.class)
@Target({ METHOD, FIELD, ANNOTATION_TYPE, CONSTRUCTOR, PARAMETER, TYPE_USE })
@Retention(RUNTIME)
@Repeatable(List.class)
public @interface CarPool {

    String message() default "{CarPool.message}";

    Class<?>[] groups() default {};

    int value();

    Class<? extends Payload>[] payload() default {};

    /**
     * Defines several @CarPool annotations on the same element
     * @see (@link CarPool}
     */
    @Target({ METHOD, FIELD, ANNOTATION_TYPE, CONSTRUCTOR, PARAMETER, TYPE_USE })
    @Retention(RUNTIME)
    @Documented
    @interface List {
        CarPool[] value();
    }
}
public class Car{

  private String registrationNumber;

  @CarPool(value = 2, group = NonPeakHour.class)
  @CarPool(value = 3, group = {Default.class, PeakHour.class})
  private int totalPassengers;
}

----
Any validation failures are gracefully handled and can be displayed by
the `h:messages` tag.

Any managed bean that contains Bean Validation annotations automatically
gets validation constraints placed on the fields on a JavaServer Faces
application's web pages.

For more information on using validation constraints, see the following:

* link:bean-validation-advanced.html#GKAHP[Chapter 24, "Bean Validation:
Advanced Topics"]
* link:jaxrs-advanced002.html#BABCJEDF[Validating Resource Data with Bean
Validation]
* link:persistence-intro002.html#GKAHQ[Validating Persistent Fields and
Properties]

Commit message:

First pass at Bean Validation (#149)
* First pass at Bean Validation

* Renamed Jakarta Faces

* applied feedback

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/bean-validation002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Using Jakarta Bean Validation Constraints
next=bean-validation003.html
prev=bean-validation001.html
~~~~~~
# Using Jakarta Bean Validation Constraints


[[GIRCZ]][[using-bean-validation-constraints]]

Using Jakarta Bean Validation Constraints
------------------------------------------

The Jakarta Bean Validation model is supported by constraints in the form of
annotations placed on a field, method, or class of a JavaBeans
component, such as a managed bean.

Constraints can be built in or user defined. User-defined constraints
are called custom constraints. Several built-in constraints are
available in the `javax.validation.constraints` package.
link:#GKAGK[Table 23-1] lists all the built-in constraints. See
link:bean-validation-advanced001.html#GKFGX[Creating Custom Constraints]
for information on creating custom constraints.

[[sthref121]][[GKAGK]]

Table 23-1 Built-In Jakarta Bean Validation Constraints

[width="99%",cols="22%,59%,18%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Constraint* |*Description* |*Example*
|`@AssertFalse` |The value of the field or property must be `false`. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@AssertFalse
boolean isUnsupported;
----

|`@AssertTrue` |The value of the field or property must be `true`. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@AssertTrue
boolean isActive;
----

|`@DecimalMax` |The value of the field or property must be a decimal
value lower than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@DecimalMax("30.00")
BigDecimal discount;
----

|`@DecimalMin` |The value of the field or property must be a decimal
value greater than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@DecimalMin("5.00")
BigDecimal discount;
----

|`@Digits` |The value of the field or property must be a number within a
specified range. The `integer` element specifies the maximum integral
digits for the number, and the `fraction` element specifies the maximum
fractional digits for the number. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Digits(integer=6, fraction=2)
BigDecimal price;
----

|`@Email` |The value of the field or property must be a valid email address. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Email
String emailaddress;
----

|`@Future` |The value of the field or property must be a date in the
future. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Future
Date eventDate;
----

|`@FutureOrPresent` |TThe value of the field or property must be a date or time in present or future. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FutureOrPresent
Time travelTime;

----
|`@Max` |The value of the field or property must be an integer value
lower than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Max(10)
int quantity;
----

|`@Min` |The value of the field or property must be an integer value
greater than or equal to the number in the value element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Min(5)
int quantity;
----
|`@Negative` |The value of the field or property must be a negative number. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Negative
int basementFloor;
----

|`@NegativeOrZero` |The value of the field or property must be negative or zero.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NegativeOrZero
int debtValue;
----
|`@NotBlank` |The value of the field or property must contain atleast one non-white space character.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NotBlank
String message;
----
|`@NotEmpty` |The value of the field or property must not be empty. The length of the characters or array, and the size of a collection or map are evaluated.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NotEmpty
String message;;
----
|`@NotNull` |The value of the field or property must not be null.
 a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@NotNull
String username;
----
|`@Null` |The value of the field or property must be null. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Null
String unusedString;
----

|`@Past` |The value of the field or property must be a date in the past.
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Past
Date birthday;
----
|`@PastOrPresent` |The value of the field or property must be a date or time in the past or present.
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@PastOrPresent
Date travelDate;
----
|`@Pattern` |The value of the field or property must match the regular
expression defined in the `regexp` element. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Pattern(regexp="\\(\\d{3}\\)\\d{3}-\\d{4}")
String phoneNumber;
----

|`@Positive` |The value of the field or property must be a positive number.
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Positive
BigDecimal area;
----
----
|`@PositiveOrZero` |The value of the field or property must be a positive number or zero. .
a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@PositiveOrZero
int totalGoals;
----

|`@Size` |The size of the field or property is evaluated and must match
the specified boundaries. If the field or property is a `String`, the
size of the string is evaluated. If the field or property is a
`Collection`, the size of the `Collection` is evaluated. If the field or
property is a `Map`, the size of the `Map` is evaluated. If the field or
property is an array, the size of the array is evaluated. Use one of the
optional `max` or `min` elements to specify the boundaries. a|
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Size(min=2, max=240)
String briefMessage;
----

|=======================================================================


In the following example, a constraint is placed on a field using the
built-in `@NotNull` constraint:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public class Name {
    @NotNull
    private String firstname;

    @NotNull
    private String lastname;
    ...
}
----

You can also place more than one constraint on a single JavaBeans
component object. For example, you can place an additional constraint
for size of field on the `firstname` and the `lastname` fields:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public class Name {
    @NotNull
    @Size(min=1, max=16)
    private String firstname;

    @NotNull
    @Size(min=1, max=16)
    private String lastname;
    ...
}
----

The following example shows a method with a user-defined constraint that
checks user-defined constraint that checks for a predefined phone number pattern, such as a country specific phone number:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@USPhoneNumber
public String getPhone() {
    return phone;
}
----

For a built-in constraint, a default implementation is available. A
user-defined or custom constraint needs a validation implementation. In
the preceding example, the `@USPhoneNumber` custom constraint needs an
implementation class.

== Repeating Annotations

[[repeating_annotations]]

In Bean Validation 2.0, you can specify the same constraint several times on a validation target using repeating annotation:
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public class Account {

    @Max (value = 2000, groups = Default.class, message = "max.value")
    @Max (value = 5000, groups = GoldCustomer.class, message = "max.value")
    private long withdrawalAmount;
}

----
All in-built constraints from `javax .validation.constraints` package support repeatable annotations. Similarly, custom constraints can use `@Repeatable` annotation. In the following sample, depending on whether the group is `PeakHour` or `NonPeakHour`, the car instance is validated as either two passengers or three passengers based car, and then listed as eligible in the car pool lane:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
/**
 * Validate whether a car is eligible for car pool lane
 */
@Documented
@Constraint(validatedBy = CarPoolValidator.class)
@Target({ METHOD, FIELD, ANNOTATION_TYPE, CONSTRUCTOR, PARAMETER, TYPE_USE })
@Retention(RUNTIME)
@Repeatable(List.class)
public @interface CarPool {

    String message() default "{CarPool.message}";

    Class<?>[] groups() default {};

    int value();

    Class<? extends Payload>[] payload() default {};

    /**
     * Defines several @CarPool annotations on the same element
     * @see (@link CarPool}
     */
    @Target({ METHOD, FIELD, ANNOTATION_TYPE, CONSTRUCTOR, PARAMETER, TYPE_USE })
    @Retention(RUNTIME)
    @Documented
    @interface List {
        CarPool[] value();
    }
}
public class Car{

  private String registrationNumber;

  @CarPool(value = 2, group = NonPeakHour.class)
  @CarPool(value = 3, group = {Default.class, PeakHour.class})
  private int totalPassengers;
}

----
Any validation failures are gracefully handled and can be displayed by
the `h:messages` tag.

Any managed bean that contains Bean Validation annotations automatically
gets validation constraints placed on the fields on a Jakarta Faces
application's web pages.

For more information on using validation constraints, see the following:

* link:bean-validation-advanced.html#GKAHP[Chapter 24, "Jakarta Bean Validation:
Advanced Topics"]
* link:jaxrs-advanced002.html#BABCJEDF[Validating Resource Data with Jakarta Bean
Validation]
* link:persistence-intro002.html#GKAHQ[Validating Persistent Fields and
Properties]
