src/main/jbake/content/cdi-basic.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction to Contexts and Dependency Injection for Java EE
next=cdi-basic001.html
prev=partcdi.html
~~~~~~
= Introduction to Contexts and Dependency Injection for Java EE


[[GIWHB]][[introduction-to-contexts-and-dependency-injection-for-java-ee]]

25 Introduction to Contexts and Dependency Injection for Java EE
----------------------------------------------------------------


This chapter describes Contexts and Dependency Injection for Java EE
(CDI) which is one of several Java EE features that help to knit
together the web tier and the transactional tier of the Java EE
platform.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:cdi-basic001.html#BABJDJGA[Getting Started]
* link:cdi-basic002.html#GIWHL[Overview of CDI]
* link:cdi-basic003.html#GJEBJ[About Beans]
* link:cdi-basic004.html#GJFZI[About CDI Managed Beans]
* link:cdi-basic005.html#GIZKS[Beans as Injectable Objects]
* link:cdi-basic006.html#GJBCK[Using Qualifiers]
* link:cdi-basic007.html#GJBAN[Injecting Beans]
* link:cdi-basic008.html#GJBBK[Using Scopes]
* link:cdi-basic009.html#GJBAK[Giving Beans EL Names]
* link:cdi-basic010.html#GJBBP[Adding Setter and Getter Methods]
* link:cdi-basic011.html#GJBBU[Using a Managed Bean in a Facelets Page]
* link:cdi-basic012.html#GJDID[Injecting Objects by Using Producer
Methods]
* link:cdi-basic013.html#GJBNZ[Configuring a CDI Application]
* link:cdi-basic014.html#BABJFEAI[Using the @PostConstruct and
@PreDestroy Annotations with CDI Managed Bean Classes]
* link:cdi-basic015.html#GIWEL[Further Information about CDI]

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/cdi-basic.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction to Contexts and Dependency Injection for Jakarta EE
next=cdi-basic001.html
prev=partcdi.html
~~~~~~
= Introduction to Contexts and Dependency Injection for Jakarta EE


[[GIWHB]][[introduction-to-contexts-and-dependency-injection-for-java-ee]]

25 Introduction to Contexts and Dependency Injection for Jakarta EE
-------------------------------------------------------------------


This chapter describes Contexts and Dependency Injection for Jakarta EE
(CDI) which is one of several Jakarta EE features that help to knit
together the web tier and the transactional tier of the Jakarta EE
platform.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:cdi-basic001.html#BABJDJGA[Getting Started]
* link:cdi-basic002.html#GIWHL[Overview of CDI]
* link:cdi-basic003.html#GJEBJ[About Beans]
* link:cdi-basic004.html#GJFZI[About CDI Managed Beans]
* link:cdi-basic005.html#GIZKS[Beans as Injectable Objects]
* link:cdi-basic006.html#GJBCK[Using Qualifiers]
* link:cdi-basic007.html#GJBAN[Injecting Beans]
* link:cdi-basic008.html#GJBBK[Using Scopes]
* link:cdi-basic009.html#GJBAK[Giving Beans EL Names]
* link:cdi-basic010.html#GJBBP[Adding Setter and Getter Methods]
* link:cdi-basic011.html#GJBBU[Using a Managed Bean in a Facelets Page]
* link:cdi-basic012.html#GJDID[Injecting Objects by Using Producer
Methods]
* link:cdi-basic013.html#GJBNZ[Configuring a CDI Application]
* link:cdi-basic014.html#BABJFEAI[Using the @PostConstruct and
@PreDestroy Annotations with CDI Managed Bean Classes]
* link:cdi-basic015.html#GIWEL[Further Information about CDI]
