src/main/jbake/content/connectorexample003.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=The traffic Example
next=interceptors.html
prev=connectorexample002.html
~~~~~~
+ The traffic Example


[[CHDJEADB]][[the-traffic-example]]

The traffic Example
-------------------

The `traffic` example demonstrates how to implement and use a simple
inbound resource adapter that receives data from a legacy EIS using a
TCP socket.

The example is in the tut-install`/examples/connectors/traffic`
directory. See link:usingexamples.html#GFIUD[Chapter 2, "Using the
Tutorial Examples,"] for basic information on building and running
sample applications.

The example demonstrates the scenario in link:#CHDGFGHB[Figure 56-3] and
consists of the following modules:

* `traffic-eis`: A Java SE program that simulates an EIS
* `traffic-rar`: The inbound resource adapter implementation
* `traffic-ejb`: A message-driven bean that is the endpoint for incoming
messages
* `traffic-war`: A web application that displays information from the
message-driven bean
* `traffic-ear`: An enterprise archive that contains the resource
adapter, the message-driven bean, and the web application

[[CHDGFGHB]]

.*Figure 56-3 The traffic Example*
image:img/javaeett_dt_056.png[
"This figure shows the components of the traffic example: a WAR
communicating with an enterprise bean using a JMS topic, and a RAR
communicating with an EIS over a TCP socket."]

The `traffic-eis` module is an auxiliary project that resembles a legacy
traffic information system. It contains a Java SE program that sends
traffic status updates for several cities to any subscribed client. The
program sends the updates in JSON format over a TCP socket. For example,
a traffic update looks like this:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
{"report":[
    {"city":"City1", "access":"AccessA", "status":"GOOD"},
    {"city":"City1", "access":"AccessB", "status":"CONGESTED"},
    ...
    {"city":"City5", "access":"AccessE", "status":"SLOW"}
 ]}
----

The `traffic-rar` module implements the inbound contract of the Java EE
Connector Architecture. This module subscribes to the traffic
information system using the TCP port indicated by the configuration
provided by the MDB and invokes the methods of the MDB to process
traffic information updates.

The `traffic-ejb` module contains a message-driven bean that activates
the resource adapter with a configuration parameter (the TCP port to
subscribe to the traffic information system). The MDB contains a method
to process the traffic information updates. This method filters the
updates for a particular city and publishes the results to a Java
Message Service (JMS) topic.

The `traffic-war` module contains a message-driven bean that receives
filtered traffic information updates from the JMS topic asynchronously
and sends them to the clients using a WebSocket endpoint.

[[sthref248]][[using-the-inbound-resource-adapter]]

Using the Inbound Resource Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In most cases, Java EE application developers use inbound resource
adapters developed by a third party. To use an inbound resource adapter,
a Java EE application includes a message-driven bean with the following
characteristics.

* The MDB implements the business interface defined by the resource
adapter.
* The MDB specifies configuration parameters to activate the resource
adapter.

The business interface defined by the resource adapter is not specified
in the Java EE Connector Architecture; it is specific to the EIS.

The MDB in this example is defined as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@MessageDriven(
    activationConfig = {
      @ActivationConfigProperty(propertyName = "port",
                                propertyValue = "4008")
    }
)
public class TrafficMdb implements TrafficListener { ... }
----

The `TrafficListener` interface is defined in the API package of the
resource adapter. The resource adapter requires the MDB to provide the
`port` property.

When the MDB is deployed, it activates the `traffic-rar` resource
adapter, which invokes the methods of the MDB to process traffic
information updates. Then the MDB filters the updates for a particular
city and publishes the results to a JMS topic.

In this particular example, the `TrafficListener` interface is empty. In
addition to this interface, the resource adapter provides the
`TrafficCommand` annotation and uses reflection to discover which
methods in the MDB are decorated with this annotation:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@MessageDriven(...)
public class TrafficMdb implements TrafficListener {

    @TrafficCommand(name="report", info="Process report")
    public void processReport(String jsonReport) { ... }
    ...
}
----

This approach enables you to adapt the MDB to support new features in
the EIS without having to modify the `TrafficListener` interface or the
resource adapter module.

[[sthref249]][[implementing-the-inbound-resource-adapter]]

Implementing the Inbound Resource Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `traffic-rar` module implements the inbound resource adapter
contract from the Java EE Connector Architecture for the simple traffic
information system (EIS) used in this example. The architecture of the
inbound resource adapter is shown in link:#CHDHADDC[Figure 56-4].

[[CHDHADDC]]

.*Figure 56-4 Architecture of the traffic Example*
image:img/javaeett_dt_057.png[
"This figure shows the classes in each of the components of the traffic
example."]

The `traffic-rar` module implements the interfaces listed in
link:#CHDEDEAF[Table 56-3].

[[sthref251]][[CHDEDEAF]]


*Table 56-3 Interfaces Implemented in the traffic-rar Module*


[width="99%",cols="20%,20%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Package* |*Interface* |*Description*
|`javax.resource.spi` |`ResourceAdapter` |Defines the lifecycle methods
of the resource adapter.

|`javax.resource.spi` |`ActivationSpec` |Defines the configuration
parameters that the MDB provides to activate the inbound resource
adapter.

|`javax.resource.spi` |`Work` |The traffic service subscriber implements
this interface from the work management contract to wait for traffic
updates on a separate thread.
|=======================================================================


When an MDB activates the inbound resource adapter, the container
invokes the `endpointActivation` method in the `TrafficResourceAdapter`
class:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Connector(...)
public class TrafficResourceAdapter implements ResourceAdapter, Serializable {
    ...
    @Override
    public void endpointActivation(MessageEndpointFactory endpointFactory,
                                   ActivationSpec spec)
                                   throws ResourceException {
        Class endpointClass = endpointFactory.getEndpointClass();
        /* this method is called from a new thread in the example:
        MessageEndpoint endpoint = endpointFactory.createEndpoint(null); */
    }
}
----

The `getEndpointClass` method returns the `Class` type of the MDB
performing the activation, which enables the resource adapter to use
reflection to find methods annotated with `@TrafficCommand` in the MDB.

The `createEndpoint` method returns an instance of the MDB. The resource
adapter uses this instance to invoke the methods of the MDB when it
receives requests from the EIS.

After obtaining the message endpoint instance (MDB), the resource
adapter uses the work management contract to create the traffic service
subscriber thread that receives traffic updates from the EIS. The
resource adapter obtains the `WorkManager` instance from the bootstrap
context as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
WorkManager workManager;
...
@Override
public void start(BootstrapContext ctx) ... {
    workManager = ctx.getWorkManager();
}
----

The resource adapter schedules the traffic service subscriber thread
using the work manager:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tSubscriber = new TrafficServiceSubscriber(tSpec, endpoint);
workManager.scheduleWork(tSubscriber);
----

The `TrafficServiceSubscriber` class implements the
`javax.resource.spi.Work` interface from the work management contract.

The traffic service subscriber thread uses reflection to invoke the
methods in the MDB:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
private String callMdb(MessageEndpoint mdb, Method command,
                       String... params) ... {
    String resp;
    /* this code contains proper exception handling in the sources */
    mdb.beforeDelivery(command);
    Object ret = command.invoke(mdb, (Object[]) params);
    resp = (String) ret;
    mdb.afterDelivery();
    return resp;
}

For more details, see the code and the comments in the traffic-rar module.
----

[[sthref252]][[running-the-traffic-example]]

Running the traffic Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and
run the `traffic` example.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BABIJJEH[To Run the traffic Example Using NetBeans IDE]
* link:#BABBBGBA[To Run the traffic Example Using Maven]

[[BABIJJEH]][[to-run-the-traffic-example-using-netbeans-ide]]

To Run the traffic Example Using NetBeans IDE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:usingexamples002.html#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  From the File menu, choose Open Project.
3.  In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tut-install/examples/connectors
----
4.  Select the `traffic` folder.
5.  Click Open Project.
6.  In the Projects tab, expand the `traffic` node.
7.  Right-click the `traffic-eis` module and select Open Project.
8.  Right-click the `traffic-eis` project and select Run.
+
The messages from the EIS appear on the Output tab:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Traffic EIS accepting connections on port 4008
----
9.  In the Projects tab, right-click the `traffic` project and select
Clean and Build.
+
This command builds and packages the resource adapter, the MDB, and the
web application into an EAR archive and deploys it. The server log shows
the call sequence that activates the resource adapter and the filtered
traffic updates for City1.
10. Open the following URL in a web browser:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
http://localhost:8080/traffic/
----
+
The web interface shows filtered traffic updates for City1 every few
seconds.
11. After undeploying the `traffic-ear` application, close the
`traffic-eis` application from the status bar.

[[BABBBGBA]][[to-run-the-traffic-example-using-maven]]

To Run the traffic Example Using Maven
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:usingexamples002.html#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  In a terminal window, go to:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tut-install/examples/connectors/traffic/traffic-eis/
----
3.  Enter the following command in the terminal window:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command builds and packages the traffic EIS.
4.  Enter the following command in the terminal window:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
mvn exec:java
----
+
The messages from the EIS appear in the terminal window:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Traffic EIS accepting connections on port 4008
----
+
Leave this terminal window open.
5.  Open a new terminal window and go to:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tut-install/examples/connectors/traffic/
----
6.  Enter the following command:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command builds and packages the resource adapter, the MDB, and the
web application into an EAR archive and deploys it. The server log shows
the call sequence that activates the resource adapter and the filtered
traffic updates for City1.
7.  Open the following URL in a web browser:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
http://localhost:8080/traffic/
----
+
The web interface shows the filtered traffic updates for City1 every few
seconds.
8.  After undeploying the `traffic-ear` application, press Ctrl+C in the
first terminal window to close the `traffic-eis` application.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/connectorexample003.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=The traffic Example
next=interceptors.html
prev=connectorexample002.html
~~~~~~
+ The traffic Example


[[CHDJEADB]][[the-traffic-example]]

The traffic Example
-------------------

The `traffic` example demonstrates how to implement and use a simple
inbound resource adapter that receives data from a legacy EIS using a
TCP socket.

The example is in the tut-install`/examples/connectors/traffic`
directory. See link:usingexamples.html#GFIUD[Chapter 2, "Using the
Tutorial Examples,"] for basic information on building and running
sample applications.

The example demonstrates the scenario in link:#CHDGFGHB[Figure 56-3] and
consists of the following modules:

* `traffic-eis`: A Java SE program that simulates an EIS
* `traffic-rar`: The inbound resource adapter implementation
* `traffic-ejb`: A message-driven bean that is the endpoint for incoming
messages
* `traffic-war`: A web application that displays information from the
message-driven bean
* `traffic-ear`: An enterprise archive that contains the resource
adapter, the message-driven bean, and the web application

[[CHDGFGHB]]

.*Figure 56-3 The traffic Example*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_056.png[
"This figure shows the components of the traffic example: a WAR
communicating with an enterprise bean using a JMS topic, and a RAR
communicating with an EIS over a TCP socket."]

The `traffic-eis` module is an auxiliary project that resembles a legacy
traffic information system. It contains a Java SE program that sends
traffic status updates for several cities to any subscribed client. The
program sends the updates in JSON format over a TCP socket. For example,
a traffic update looks like this:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
{"report":[
    {"city":"City1", "access":"AccessA", "status":"GOOD"},
    {"city":"City1", "access":"AccessB", "status":"CONGESTED"},
    ...
    {"city":"City5", "access":"AccessE", "status":"SLOW"}
 ]}
----

The `traffic-rar` module implements the inbound contract of the Jakarta EE
Connector Architecture. This module subscribes to the traffic
information system using the TCP port indicated by the configuration
provided by the MDB and invokes the methods of the MDB to process
traffic information updates.

The `traffic-ejb` module contains a message-driven bean that activates
the resource adapter with a configuration parameter (the TCP port to
subscribe to the traffic information system). The MDB contains a method
to process the traffic information updates. This method filters the
updates for a particular city and publishes the results to a Java
Message Service (JMS) topic.

The `traffic-war` module contains a message-driven bean that receives
filtered traffic information updates from the JMS topic asynchronously
and sends them to the clients using a WebSocket endpoint.

[[sthref248]][[using-the-inbound-resource-adapter]]

Using the Inbound Resource Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In most cases, Jakarta EE application developers use inbound resource
adapters developed by a third party. To use an inbound resource adapter,
a Jakarta EE application includes a message-driven bean with the following
characteristics.

* The MDB implements the business interface defined by the resource
adapter.
* The MDB specifies configuration parameters to activate the resource
adapter.

The business interface defined by the resource adapter is not specified
in the Jakarta EE Connector Architecture; it is specific to the EIS.

The MDB in this example is defined as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@MessageDriven(
    activationConfig = {
      @ActivationConfigProperty(propertyName = "port",
                                propertyValue = "4008")
    }
)
public class TrafficMdb implements TrafficListener { ... }
----

The `TrafficListener` interface is defined in the API package of the
resource adapter. The resource adapter requires the MDB to provide the
`port` property.

When the MDB is deployed, it activates the `traffic-rar` resource
adapter, which invokes the methods of the MDB to process traffic
information updates. Then the MDB filters the updates for a particular
city and publishes the results to a JMS topic.

In this particular example, the `TrafficListener` interface is empty. In
addition to this interface, the resource adapter provides the
`TrafficCommand` annotation and uses reflection to discover which
methods in the MDB are decorated with this annotation:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@MessageDriven(...)
public class TrafficMdb implements TrafficListener {

    @TrafficCommand(name="report", info="Process report")
    public void processReport(String jsonReport) { ... }
    ...
}
----

This approach enables you to adapt the MDB to support new features in
the EIS without having to modify the `TrafficListener` interface or the
resource adapter module.

[[sthref249]][[implementing-the-inbound-resource-adapter]]

Implementing the Inbound Resource Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `traffic-rar` module implements the inbound resource adapter
contract from the Jakarta EE Connector Architecture for the simple traffic
information system (EIS) used in this example. The architecture of the
inbound resource adapter is shown in link:#CHDHADDC[Figure 56-4].

[[CHDHADDC]]

.*Figure 56-4 Architecture of the traffic Example*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_057.png[
"This figure shows the classes in each of the components of the traffic
example."]

The `traffic-rar` module implements the interfaces listed in
link:#CHDEDEAF[Table 56-3].

[[sthref251]][[CHDEDEAF]]


*Table 56-3 Interfaces Implemented in the traffic-rar Module*


[width="99%",cols="20%,20%,60%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Package* |*Interface* |*Description*
|`javax.resource.spi` |`ResourceAdapter` |Defines the lifecycle methods
of the resource adapter.

|`javax.resource.spi` |`ActivationSpec` |Defines the configuration
parameters that the MDB provides to activate the inbound resource
adapter.

|`javax.resource.spi` |`Work` |The traffic service subscriber implements
this interface from the work management contract to wait for traffic
updates on a separate thread.
|=======================================================================


When an MDB activates the inbound resource adapter, the container
invokes the `endpointActivation` method in the `TrafficResourceAdapter`
class:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Connector(...)
public class TrafficResourceAdapter implements ResourceAdapter, Serializable {
    ...
    @Override
    public void endpointActivation(MessageEndpointFactory endpointFactory,
                                   ActivationSpec spec)
                                   throws ResourceException {
        Class endpointClass = endpointFactory.getEndpointClass();
        /* this method is called from a new thread in the example:
        MessageEndpoint endpoint = endpointFactory.createEndpoint(null); */
    }
}
----

The `getEndpointClass` method returns the `Class` type of the MDB
performing the activation, which enables the resource adapter to use
reflection to find methods annotated with `@TrafficCommand` in the MDB.

The `createEndpoint` method returns an instance of the MDB. The resource
adapter uses this instance to invoke the methods of the MDB when it
receives requests from the EIS.

After obtaining the message endpoint instance (MDB), the resource
adapter uses the work management contract to create the traffic service
subscriber thread that receives traffic updates from the EIS. The
resource adapter obtains the `WorkManager` instance from the bootstrap
context as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
WorkManager workManager;
...
@Override
public void start(BootstrapContext ctx) ... {
    workManager = ctx.getWorkManager();
}
----

The resource adapter schedules the traffic service subscriber thread
using the work manager:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tSubscriber = new TrafficServiceSubscriber(tSpec, endpoint);
workManager.scheduleWork(tSubscriber);
----

The `TrafficServiceSubscriber` class implements the
`javax.resource.spi.Work` interface from the work management contract.

The traffic service subscriber thread uses reflection to invoke the
methods in the MDB:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
private String callMdb(MessageEndpoint mdb, Method command,
                       String... params) ... {
    String resp;
    /* this code contains proper exception handling in the sources */
    mdb.beforeDelivery(command);
    Object ret = command.invoke(mdb, (Object[]) params);
    resp = (String) ret;
    mdb.afterDelivery();
    return resp;
}

For more details, see the code and the comments in the traffic-rar module.
----

[[sthref252]][[running-the-traffic-example]]

Running the traffic Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and
run the `traffic` example.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BABIJJEH[To Run the traffic Example Using NetBeans IDE]
* link:#BABBBGBA[To Run the traffic Example Using Maven]

[[BABIJJEH]][[to-run-the-traffic-example-using-netbeans-ide]]

To Run the traffic Example Using NetBeans IDE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:usingexamples002.html#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  From the File menu, choose Open Project.
3.  In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tut-install/examples/connectors
----
4.  Select the `traffic` folder.
5.  Click Open Project.
6.  In the Projects tab, expand the `traffic` node.
7.  Right-click the `traffic-eis` module and select Open Project.
8.  Right-click the `traffic-eis` project and select Run.
+
The messages from the EIS appear on the Output tab:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Traffic EIS accepting connections on port 4008
----
9.  In the Projects tab, right-click the `traffic` project and select
Clean and Build.
+
This command builds and packages the resource adapter, the MDB, and the
web application into an EAR archive and deploys it. The server log shows
the call sequence that activates the resource adapter and the filtered
traffic updates for City1.
10. Open the following URL in a web browser:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
http://localhost:8080/traffic/
----
+
The web interface shows filtered traffic updates for City1 every few
seconds.
11. After undeploying the `traffic-ear` application, close the
`traffic-eis` application from the status bar.

[[BABBBGBA]][[to-run-the-traffic-example-using-maven]]

To Run the traffic Example Using Maven
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:usingexamples002.html#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  In a terminal window, go to:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tut-install/examples/connectors/traffic/traffic-eis/
----
3.  Enter the following command in the terminal window:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command builds and packages the traffic EIS.
4.  Enter the following command in the terminal window:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
mvn exec:java
----
+
The messages from the EIS appear in the terminal window:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Traffic EIS accepting connections on port 4008
----
+
Leave this terminal window open.
5.  Open a new terminal window and go to:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
tut-install/examples/connectors/traffic/
----
6.  Enter the following command:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command builds and packages the resource adapter, the MDB, and the
web application into an EAR archive and deploys it. The server log shows
the call sequence that activates the resource adapter and the filtered
traffic updates for City1.
7.  Open the following URL in a web browser:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
http://localhost:8080/traffic/
----
+
The web interface shows the filtered traffic updates for City1 every few
seconds.
8.  After undeploying the `traffic-ear` application, press Ctrl+C in the
first terminal window to close the `traffic-eis` application.
