src/main/jbake/content/dukes-tutoring002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Main Interface
next=dukes-tutoring003.html
prev=dukes-tutoring001.html
~~~~~~
Main Interface
==============

[[GKAFH]][[main-interface]]

Main Interface
--------------

The main interface allows students and staff to check students in and
out, and record when students are outside at the playground.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#GKAFJ[Java Persistence API Entities Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKAFC[Enterprise Beans Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#BCGHHCDA[WebSocket Endpoint Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKAET[Facelets Files Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKADH[Helper Classes Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKADA[Properties Files]
* link:#GKAEV[Deployment Descriptors Used in Duke's Tutoring]

[[GKAFJ]][[java-persistence-api-entities-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Java Persistence API Entities Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following entities used in the main interface encapsulate data
stored and manipulated by Duke's Tutoring, and are located in the
`dukestutoring.entity` package in the `dukes-tutoring-common` project.

* `Person`: The `Person` entity defines attributes common to students
and guardians tracked by the application. These attributes are the
person's name and contact information, including phone numbers and email
address. This entity has two subclasses, `Student` and `Guardian`.
* `PersonDetails`: The `PersonDetails` entity is used to store
additional data common to all people, such as attributes like pictures
and the person's birthday, which aren't included in the `Person` entity
for performance reasons.
* `Student` and `Guardian`: The `Student` entity stores attributes
specific to the students who come to tutoring. This includes information
like the student's grade level and school. The `Guardian` entity's
attributes are specific to the parents or guardians of a `Student`.
Students and guardians have a many-to-many relationship. That is, a
student may have one or more guardians, and a guardian may have one or
more students.
* `Address`: The `Address` entity represents a mailing address and is
associated with `Person` entities. Addresses and people have a
many-to-one relationship. That is, one person may have many addresses.
* `TutoringSession`: The `TutoringSession` entity represents a
particular day at the tutoring center. A particular tutoring session
tracks which students attended that day, and which students went to the
park.
* `StatusEntry`: The `StatusEntry` entity, which logs when a student's
status changes, is associated with the `TutoringSession` entity.
Students' statuses change when they check in to a tutoring session, when
they go to the park, and when they check out. The status entry allows
the tutoring center staff to track exactly which students attended a
tutoring session, when they checked in and out, which students went to
the park while they were at the tutoring center, and when they went to
and came back from the park.

For information on creating Java Persistence API entities, see
link:persistence-intro.html#BNBPZ[Chapter 40, "Introduction to the Java
Persistence API."] For information on validating entity data, see
link:persistence-intro002.html#GKAHQ[Validating Persistent Fields and
Properties] and link:bean-validation-advanced.html#GKAHP[Chapter 24,
"Bean Validation: Advanced Topics."]

[[GKAFC]][[enterprise-beans-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Enterprise Beans Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following enterprise beans used in the main interface provide the
business logic for Duke's Tutoring, and are located in the
`dukestutoring.ejb` package in the `dukes-tutoring-war` project:

* `ConfigBean` is a singleton session bean used to create the default
students when the application is initially deployed, and to create an
automatic EJB timer that creates tutoring session entities every
weekday.
* `RequestBean` is a stateless session bean containing the business
methods for the main interface. The bean also has business methods for
retrieving lists of students. These business methods use strongly typed
Criteria API queries to retrieve data from the database. `RequestBean`
also injects a CDI event instance, `StatusEvent`. This event is fired
from the business methods when the status of a student changes.

For information on creating and using enterprise beans, see
link:partentbeans.html#BNBLR[Enterprise Beans]. For information on
creating strongly typed Criteria API queries, see
link:persistence-criteria.html#GJITV[Chapter 43, "Using the Criteria API
to Create Queries."] For information on CDI events, see
link:cdi-adv005.html#GKHIC[Using Events in CDI Applications].

[[BCGHHCDA]][[websocket-endpoint-used-in-the-main-interface]]

WebSocket Endpoint Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `javaeetutorial.dukestutoring.web.websocket.StatusEndpoint` class is
a WebSocket server endpoint that returns students and their status to
client endpoints. The `StatusEndpoint.updateStatus` method is a CDI
observer method for the `StatusEvent` event. When a student's status
changes in the main interface, a `StatusEvent` is fired. The
`updateStatus` observer method is called by the container, and pushes
out the status change to all the client endpoints registered with
`StatusEndpoint`.

The `index.xhtml` JavaServer Faces page contains JavaScript code to
connect to the WebSocket endpoint. The `onMessage` method on this page
clicks a JavaServer Faces button, which makes an Ajax request to refresh
the table that shows the current status of the students.

For more information on WebSocket endpoints, see
link:websocket.html#GKJIQ5[Chapter 19, "Java API for WebSocket."] For
information on CDI events, see link:cdi-adv005.html#GKHIC[Using Events in
CDI Applications].

[[GKAET]][[facelets-files-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Facelets Files Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Duke's Tutoring application uses Facelets to display the user
interface, making extensive use of the templating features of Facelets.
Facelets, the default display technology for JavaServer Faces
technology, consists of XHTML files located in the
`_tut-install_/examples/case-studies/dukes-tutoring-war/src/main/webapp/`
directory.

The following Facelets files are used in the main interface:

* `template.xhtml`: Template file for the main interface
* `error.xhtml`: Error file if something goes wrong
* `index.xhtml`: Landing page for the main interface
* `park.xhtml`: Page showing who is currently at the park
* `current.xhtml`: Page showing who is currently in today's tutoring
session
* `statusEntries.xhtml`: Page showing the detailed status entry log for
today's session
* `resources/components/allStudentsTable.xhtml`: A composite component
for a table displaying all active students
* `resources/components/allInactiveStudentsTable.xhtml`: A composite
component for a table displaying all inactive students
* `resources/components/currentSessionTable.xhtml`: A composite
component for a table displaying all students in today's session
* `resources/components/parkTable.xhtml`: A composite component for a
table displaying all students currently at the park
* `WEB-INF/includes/mainNav.xhtml`: XHTML fragment for the main
interface's navigation bar

For information on using Facelets, see
link:jsf-facelets.html#GIEPX[Chapter 8, "Introduction to Facelets."]

[[GKADH]][[helper-classes-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Helper Classes Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following helper classes, found in the `dukes-tutoring-common`
project's `dukestutoring.util` package, are used in the main interface.

* `CalendarUtil`: A class that provides a method to strip the
unnecessary time data from `java.util.Calendar` instances.
* `Email`: A custom Bean Validation annotation class for validating
email addresses in the `Person` entity.
* `StatusType`: An enumerated type defining the different statuses that
a student can have. Possible values are `IN`, `OUT`, and `PARK`.
`StatusType` is used throughout the application, including in the
`StatusEntry` entity, and throughout the main interface. `StatusType`
also defines a `toString` method that returns a localized translation of
the status based on the locale.

[[GKADA]][[properties-files]]

Properties Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The strings used in the main interface are encapsulated into resource
bundles to allow the display of localized strings in multiple locales.
Each of the properties files has locale-specific files appended with
locale codes, containing the translated strings for each locale. For
example, `Messages_es.properties` contains the localized strings for
Spanish locales.

The `dukes-tutoring-common` project has the following resource bundle
under `src/main/resources/`.

* `javaeetutorial/dukestutoring/util/StatusMessages.properties`: Strings
for each of the status types defined in the `StatusType` enumerated type
for the default locale. Each supported locale has a property file of the
form `StatusMessages_`locale prefix`.properties` containing the
localized strings. For example, the strings for Spanish-speaking locales
are located in `StatusMessages_es.properties`.

The `dukes-tutoring-war` project has the following resource bundles
under `src/main/resources/`.

* `ValidationMessages.properties`: Strings for the default locale used
by the Bean Validation runtime to display validation messages. This file
must be named `ValidationMessages.properties` and located in the default
package as required by the Bean Validation specification. Each supported
locale has a property file of the form `ValidationMessages_`locale
prefix`.properties` containing the localized strings. For example, the
strings for German-speaking locales are located in
`ValidationMessages_de.properties`.
* `javaeetutorial/dukestutoring/web/messages/Messages.properties`:
Strings for the default locale for the main and administration Facelets
interface. Each supported locale has a property file of the form
`Messages_`locale prefix`.properties` containing the localized strings.
For example, the strings for simplified Chinese-speaking locales are
located in `Messages_zh.properties`.

For information on localizing web applications, see
link:jsf-configure006.html#BNAXB[Registering Application Messages].

[[GKAEV]][[deployment-descriptors-used-in-dukes-tutoring]]

Deployment Descriptors Used in Duke's Tutoring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Duke's Tutoring uses these deployment descriptors in the
`src/main/webapp/WEB-INF` directory of the `dukes-tutoring-war` project:

* `faces-config.xml`: The JavaServer Faces configuration file
* `glassfish-web.xml`: The configuration file specific to GlassFish
Server, which defines security role mapping
* `web.xml`: The web application configuration file

Duke's Tutoring also uses the following deployment descriptor in the
`src/main/resources/META-INF` directory of the `dukes-tutoring-common`
project:

* `persistence.xml`: The Java Persistence API configuration file

No enterprise bean deployment descriptor is used in Duke's Tutoring.
Annotations in the enterprise bean class files are used for the
configuration of enterprise beans in this application.

Commit message:

First pass at dukes tutorials (#152)
* First pass at dukes tutorials

* Renamed Jakarta Faces

* Fixed CDI references

* applied feedback

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/dukes-tutoring002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Main Interface
next=dukes-tutoring003.html
prev=dukes-tutoring001.html
~~~~~~
Main Interface
==============

[[GKAFH]][[main-interface]]

Main Interface
--------------

The main interface allows students and staff to check students in and
out, and record when students are outside at the playground.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#GKAFJ[Jakarta Persistence Entities Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKAFC[Enterprise Beans Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#BCGHHCDA[WebSocket Endpoint Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKAET[Facelets Files Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKADH[Helper Classes Used in the Main Interface]
* link:#GKADA[Properties Files]
* link:#GKAEV[Deployment Descriptors Used in Duke's Tutoring]

[[GKAFJ]][[java-persistence-api-entities-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Java Persistence API Entities Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following entities used in the main interface encapsulate data
stored and manipulated by Duke's Tutoring, and are located in the
`dukestutoring.entity` package in the `dukes-tutoring-common` project.

* `Person`: The `Person` entity defines attributes common to students
and guardians tracked by the application. These attributes are the
person's name and contact information, including phone numbers and email
address. This entity has two subclasses, `Student` and `Guardian`.
* `PersonDetails`: The `PersonDetails` entity is used to store
additional data common to all people, such as attributes like pictures
and the person's birthday, which aren't included in the `Person` entity
for performance reasons.
* `Student` and `Guardian`: The `Student` entity stores attributes
specific to the students who come to tutoring. This includes information
like the student's grade level and school. The `Guardian` entity's
attributes are specific to the parents or guardians of a `Student`.
Students and guardians have a many-to-many relationship. That is, a
student may have one or more guardians, and a guardian may have one or
more students.
* `Address`: The `Address` entity represents a mailing address and is
associated with `Person` entities. Addresses and people have a
many-to-one relationship. That is, one person may have many addresses.
* `TutoringSession`: The `TutoringSession` entity represents a
particular day at the tutoring center. A particular tutoring session
tracks which students attended that day, and which students went to the
park.
* `StatusEntry`: The `StatusEntry` entity, which logs when a student's
status changes, is associated with the `TutoringSession` entity.
Students' statuses change when they check in to a tutoring session, when
they go to the park, and when they check out. The status entry allows
the tutoring center staff to track exactly which students attended a
tutoring session, when they checked in and out, which students went to
the park while they were at the tutoring center, and when they went to
and came back from the park.

For information on creating Jakarta Persistence entities, see
link:persistence-intro.html#BNBPZ[Chapter 40, "Introduction to the Jakarta
Persistence."] For information on validating entity data, see
link:persistence-intro002.html#GKAHQ[Validating Persistent Fields and
Properties] and link:bean-validation-advanced.html#GKAHP[Chapter 24,
"Jakarta Bean Validation: Advanced Topics."]

[[GKAFC]][[enterprise-beans-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Enterprise Beans Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following enterprise beans used in the main interface provide the
business logic for Duke's Tutoring, and are located in the
`dukestutoring.ejb` package in the `dukes-tutoring-war` project:

* `ConfigBean` is a singleton session bean used to create the default
students when the application is initially deployed, and to create an
automatic enterprise bean timer that creates tutoring session entities every
weekday.
* `RequestBean` is a stateless session bean containing the business
methods for the main interface. The bean also has business methods for
retrieving lists of students. These business methods use strongly typed
Criteria API queries to retrieve data from the database. `RequestBean`
also injects a CDI event instance, `StatusEvent`. This event is fired
from the business methods when the status of a student changes.

For information on creating and using enterprise beans, see
link:partentbeans.html#BNBLR[Enterprise Beans]. For information on
creating strongly typed Criteria API queries, see
link:persistence-criteria.html#GJITV[Chapter 43, "Using the Criteria API
to Create Queries."] For information on CDI events, see
link:cdi-adv005.html#GKHIC[Using Events in CDI Applications].

[[BCGHHCDA]][[websocket-endpoint-used-in-the-main-interface]]

WebSocket Endpoint Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `javaeetutorial.dukestutoring.web.websocket.StatusEndpoint` class is
a WebSocket server endpoint that returns students and their status to
client endpoints. The `StatusEndpoint.updateStatus` method is a CDI
observer method for the `StatusEvent` event. When a student's status
changes in the main interface, a `StatusEvent` is fired. The
`updateStatus` observer method is called by the container, and pushes
out the status change to all the client endpoints registered with
`StatusEndpoint`.

The `index.xhtml` Jakarta Faces page contains JavaScript code to
connect to the WebSocket endpoint. The `onMessage` method on this page
clicks a Jakarta Faces button, which makes an Ajax request to refresh
the table that shows the current status of the students.

For more information on WebSocket endpoints, see
link:websocket.html#GKJIQ5[Chapter 19, "Jakarta WebSocket."] For
information on CDI events, see link:cdi-adv005.html#GKHIC[Using Events in
CDI Applications].

[[GKAET]][[facelets-files-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Facelets Files Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Duke's Tutoring application uses Facelets to display the user
interface, making extensive use of the templating features of Facelets.
Facelets, the default display technology for Jakarta Faces
technology, consists of XHTML files located in the
`_tut-install_/examples/case-studies/dukes-tutoring-war/src/main/webapp/`
directory.

The following Facelets files are used in the main interface:

* `template.xhtml`: Template file for the main interface
* `error.xhtml`: Error file if something goes wrong
* `index.xhtml`: Landing page for the main interface
* `park.xhtml`: Page showing who is currently at the park
* `current.xhtml`: Page showing who is currently in today's tutoring
session
* `statusEntries.xhtml`: Page showing the detailed status entry log for
today's session
* `resources/components/allStudentsTable.xhtml`: A composite component
for a table displaying all active students
* `resources/components/allInactiveStudentsTable.xhtml`: A composite
component for a table displaying all inactive students
* `resources/components/currentSessionTable.xhtml`: A composite
component for a table displaying all students in today's session
* `resources/components/parkTable.xhtml`: A composite component for a
table displaying all students currently at the park
* `WEB-INF/includes/mainNav.xhtml`: XHTML fragment for the main
interface's navigation bar

For information on using Facelets, see
link:jsf-facelets.html#GIEPX[Chapter 8, "Introduction to Facelets."]

[[GKADH]][[helper-classes-used-in-the-main-interface]]

Helper Classes Used in the Main Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following helper classes, found in the `dukes-tutoring-common`
project's `dukestutoring.util` package, are used in the main interface.

* `CalendarUtil`: A class that provides a method to strip the
unnecessary time data from `java.util.Calendar` instances.
* `Email`: A custom Bean Validation annotation class for validating
email addresses in the `Person` entity.
* `StatusType`: An enumerated type defining the different statuses that
a student can have. Possible values are `IN`, `OUT`, and `PARK`.
`StatusType` is used throughout the application, including in the
`StatusEntry` entity, and throughout the main interface. `StatusType`
also defines a `toString` method that returns a localized translation of
the status based on the locale.

[[GKADA]][[properties-files]]

Properties Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The strings used in the main interface are encapsulated into resource
bundles to allow the display of localized strings in multiple locales.
Each of the properties files has locale-specific files appended with
locale codes, containing the translated strings for each locale. For
example, `Messages_es.properties` contains the localized strings for
Spanish locales.

The `dukes-tutoring-common` project has the following resource bundle
under `src/main/resources/`.

* `javaeetutorial/dukestutoring/util/StatusMessages.properties`: Strings
for each of the status types defined in the `StatusType` enumerated type
for the default locale. Each supported locale has a property file of the
form `StatusMessages_`locale prefix`.properties` containing the
localized strings. For example, the strings for Spanish-speaking locales
are located in `StatusMessages_es.properties`.

The `dukes-tutoring-war` project has the following resource bundles
under `src/main/resources/`.

* `ValidationMessages.properties`: Strings for the default locale used
by the Bean Validation runtime to display validation messages. This file
must be named `ValidationMessages.properties` and located in the default
package as required by the Bean Validation specification. Each supported
locale has a property file of the form `ValidationMessages_`locale
prefix`.properties` containing the localized strings. For example, the
strings for German-speaking locales are located in
`ValidationMessages_de.properties`.
* `javaeetutorial/dukestutoring/web/messages/Messages.properties`:
Strings for the default locale for the main and administration Facelets
interface. Each supported locale has a property file of the form
`Messages_`locale prefix`.properties` containing the localized strings.
For example, the strings for simplified Chinese-speaking locales are
located in `Messages_zh.properties`.

For information on localizing web applications, see
link:jsf-configure006.html#BNAXB[Registering Application Messages].

[[GKAEV]][[deployment-descriptors-used-in-dukes-tutoring]]

Deployment Descriptors Used in Duke's Tutoring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Duke's Tutoring uses these deployment descriptors in the
`src/main/webapp/WEB-INF` directory of the `dukes-tutoring-war` project:

* `faces-config.xml`: The Jakarta Faces configuration file
* `glassfish-web.xml`: The configuration file specific to GlassFish
Server, which defines security role mapping
* `web.xml`: The web application configuration file

Duke's Tutoring also uses the following deployment descriptor in the
`src/main/resources/META-INF` directory of the `dukes-tutoring-common`
project:

* `persistence.xml`: The Jakarta Persistence configuration file

No enterprise bean deployment descriptor is used in Duke's Tutoring.
Annotations in the enterprise bean class files are used for the
configuration of enterprise beans in this application.
