src/main/jbake/content/jms-concepts002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Basic JMS API Concepts
next=jms-concepts003.html
prev=jms-concepts001.html
~~~~~~
Basic JMS API Concepts
======================

[[BNCDX]][[basic-jms-api-concepts]]

Basic JMS API Concepts
----------------------

This section introduces the most basic JMS API concepts, the ones you
must know to get started writing simple application clients that use the
JMS API.

The next section introduces the JMS API programming model. Later
sections cover more advanced concepts, including the ones you need in
order to write applications that use message-driven beans.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNCDY[JMS API Architecture]
* link:#BNCEA[Messaging Styles]
* link:#BNCEG[Message Consumption]

[[BNCDY]][[jms-api-architecture]]

JMS API Architecture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A JMS application is composed of the following parts.

* A JMS provider is a messaging system that implements the JMS
interfaces and provides administrative and control features. An
implementation of the Java EE platform that supports the full profile
includes a JMS provider.
* JMS clients are the programs or components, written in the Java
programming language, that produce and consume messages. Any Java EE
application component can act as a JMS client.
+
Java SE applications can also act as JMS clients; the Message Queue
Developer's Guide for Java Clients in the GlassFish Server documentation
(`https://javaee.github.io/glassfish/documentation`) explains how to make this work.
* Messages are the objects that communicate information between JMS
clients.
* Administered objects are JMS objects configured for the use of
clients. The two kinds of JMS administered objects are destinations and
connection factories, described in link:jms-concepts003.html#BNCEJ[JMS
Administered Objects]. An administrator can create objects that are
available to all applications that use a particular installation of
GlassFish Server; alternatively, a developer can use annotations to
create objects that are specific to a particular application.

link:#BNCDZ[Figure 48-2] illustrates the way these parts interact.
Administrative tools or annotations allow you to bind destinations and
connection factories into a JNDI namespace. A JMS client can then use
resource injection to access the administered objects in the namespace
and then establish a logical connection to the same objects through the
JMS provider.

[[BNCDZ]].*Figure 48-2 JMS API Architecture*

image:img/javaeett_dt_027.png[
"Diagram of JMS API architecture, showing administrative tool, JMS
client, JNDI namespace, and JMS provider"]

[[BNCEA]][[messaging-styles]]

Messaging Styles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before the JMS API existed, most messaging products supported either the
point-to-point or the publish/subscribe style of messaging. The JMS
specification defines compliance for each style. A JMS provider must
implement both styles, and the JMS API provides interfaces that are
specific to each. The following subsections describe these messaging
styles.

The JMS API, however, makes it unnecessary to use only one of the two
styles. It allows you to use the same code to send and receive messages
using either the PTP or the pub/sub style. The destinations you use
remain specific to one style, and the behavior of the application will
depend in part on whether you are using a queue or a topic. However, the
code itself can be common to both styles, making your applications
flexible and reusable. This tutorial describes and illustrates this
coding approach, using the greatly simplified API provided by JMS 2.0.

[[BNCEB]][[point-to-point-messaging-style]]

Point-to-Point Messaging Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A point-to-point (PTP) product or application is built on the concept of
message queues, senders, and receivers. Each message is addressed to a
specific queue, and receiving clients extract messages from the queues
established to hold their messages. Queues retain all messages sent to
them until the messages are consumed or expire.

PTP messaging, illustrated in link:#BNCEC[Figure 48-3], has the
following characteristics.

* Each message has only one consumer.
* The receiver can fetch the message whether or not it was running when
the client sent the message.

[[BNCEC]]

.*Figure 48-3 Point-to-Point Messaging*
image:img/javaeett_dt_028.png[
"Diagram of point-to-point messaging, showing Client 1 sending a message
to a queue, and Client 2 consuming and acknowledging the message"]

Use PTP messaging when every message you send must be processed
successfully by one consumer.

[[BNCED]][[publishsubscribe-messaging-style]]

Publish/Subscribe Messaging Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In a publish/subscribe (pub/sub) product or application, clients address
messages to a topic, which functions somewhat like a bulletin board.
Publishers and subscribers can dynamically publish or subscribe to the
topic. The system takes care of distributing the messages arriving from
a topic's multiple publishers to its multiple subscribers. Topics retain
messages only as long as it takes to distribute them to subscribers.

With pub/sub messaging, it is important to distinguish between the
consumer that subscribes to a topic (the subscriber) and the
subscription that is created. The consumer is a JMS object within an
application, while the subscription is an entity within the JMS
provider. Normally, a topic can have many consumers, but a subscription
has only one subscriber. It is possible, however, to create shared
subscriptions; see link:jms-concepts003.html#BABJCIGJ[Creating Shared
Subscriptions] for details. See
link:jms-concepts003.html#BABEEJJJ[Consuming Messages from Topics] for
details on the semantics of pub/sub messaging.

Pub/sub messaging has the following characteristics.

* Each message can have multiple consumers.
* A client that subscribes to a topic can consume only messages sent
after the client has created a subscription, and the consumer must
continue to be active in order for it to consume messages.
+
The JMS API relaxes this requirement to some extent by allowing
applications to create durable subscriptions, which receive messages
sent while the consumers are not active. Durable subscriptions provide
the flexibility and reliability of queues but still allow clients to
send messages to many recipients. For more information about durable
subscriptions, see link:jms-concepts003.html#BNCGD[Creating Durable
Subscriptions].

Use pub/sub messaging when each message can be processed by any number
of consumers (or none). link:#BNCEE[Figure 48-4] illustrates pub/sub
messaging.

[[BNCEE]]

.*Figure 48-4 Publish/Subscribe Messaging*

image:img/javaeett_dt_029.png[
"Diagram of pub/sub messaging, showing Client 1 sending a message to a
topic, and the message being delivered to two consumers to the topic"]

[[BNCEG]][[message-consumption]]

Message Consumption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Messaging products are inherently asynchronous: There is no fundamental
timing dependency between the production and the consumption of a
message. However, the JMS specification uses this term in a more precise
sense. Messages can be consumed in either of two ways.

* Synchronously: A consumer explicitly fetches the message from the
destination by calling the `receive` method. The `receive` method can
block until a message arrives or can time out if a message does not
arrive within a specified time limit.
* Asynchronously: An application client or a Java SE client can register
a message listener with a consumer. A message listener is similar to an
event listener. Whenever a message arrives at the destination, the JMS
provider delivers the message by calling the listener's `onMessage`
method, which acts on the contents of the message. In a Java EE
application, a message-driven bean serves as a message listener (it too
has an `onMessage` method), but a client does not need to register it
with a consumer.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/jms-concepts002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Basic JMS API Concepts
next=jms-concepts003.html
prev=jms-concepts001.html
~~~~~~
Basic JMS API Concepts
======================

[[BNCDX]][[basic-jms-api-concepts]]

Basic JMS API Concepts
----------------------

This section introduces the most basic JMS API concepts, the ones you
must know to get started writing simple application clients that use the
JMS API.

The next section introduces the JMS API programming model. Later
sections cover more advanced concepts, including the ones you need in
order to write applications that use message-driven beans.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNCDY[JMS API Architecture]
* link:#BNCEA[Messaging Styles]
* link:#BNCEG[Message Consumption]

[[BNCDY]][[jms-api-architecture]]

JMS API Architecture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A JMS application is composed of the following parts.

* A JMS provider is a messaging system that implements the JMS
interfaces and provides administrative and control features. An
implementation of the Jakarta EE platform that supports the full profile
includes a JMS provider.
* JMS clients are the programs or components, written in the Java
programming language, that produce and consume messages. Any Jakarta EE
application component can act as a JMS client.
+
Java SE applications can also act as JMS clients; the Message Queue
Developer's Guide for Java Clients in the GlassFish Server documentation
(`https://javaee.github.io/glassfish/documentation`) explains how to make this work.
* Messages are the objects that communicate information between JMS
clients.
* Administered objects are JMS objects configured for the use of
clients. The two kinds of JMS administered objects are destinations and
connection factories, described in link:jms-concepts003.html#BNCEJ[JMS
Administered Objects]. An administrator can create objects that are
available to all applications that use a particular installation of
GlassFish Server; alternatively, a developer can use annotations to
create objects that are specific to a particular application.

link:#BNCDZ[Figure 48-2] illustrates the way these parts interact.
Administrative tools or annotations allow you to bind destinations and
connection factories into a JNDI namespace. A JMS client can then use
resource injection to access the administered objects in the namespace
and then establish a logical connection to the same objects through the
JMS provider.

[[BNCDZ]].*Figure 48-2 JMS API Architecture*

image:img/jakartaeett_dt_027.png[
"Diagram of JMS API architecture, showing administrative tool, JMS
client, JNDI namespace, and JMS provider"]

[[BNCEA]][[messaging-styles]]

Messaging Styles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before the JMS API existed, most messaging products supported either the
point-to-point or the publish/subscribe style of messaging. The JMS
specification defines compliance for each style. A JMS provider must
implement both styles, and the JMS API provides interfaces that are
specific to each. The following subsections describe these messaging
styles.

The JMS API, however, makes it unnecessary to use only one of the two
styles. It allows you to use the same code to send and receive messages
using either the PTP or the pub/sub style. The destinations you use
remain specific to one style, and the behavior of the application will
depend in part on whether you are using a queue or a topic. However, the
code itself can be common to both styles, making your applications
flexible and reusable. This tutorial describes and illustrates this
coding approach, using the greatly simplified API provided by JMS 2.0.

[[BNCEB]][[point-to-point-messaging-style]]

Point-to-Point Messaging Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A point-to-point (PTP) product or application is built on the concept of
message queues, senders, and receivers. Each message is addressed to a
specific queue, and receiving clients extract messages from the queues
established to hold their messages. Queues retain all messages sent to
them until the messages are consumed or expire.

PTP messaging, illustrated in link:#BNCEC[Figure 48-3], has the
following characteristics.

* Each message has only one consumer.
* The receiver can fetch the message whether or not it was running when
the client sent the message.

[[BNCEC]]

.*Figure 48-3 Point-to-Point Messaging*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_028.png[
"Diagram of point-to-point messaging, showing Client 1 sending a message
to a queue, and Client 2 consuming and acknowledging the message"]

Use PTP messaging when every message you send must be processed
successfully by one consumer.

[[BNCED]][[publishsubscribe-messaging-style]]

Publish/Subscribe Messaging Style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In a publish/subscribe (pub/sub) product or application, clients address
messages to a topic, which functions somewhat like a bulletin board.
Publishers and subscribers can dynamically publish or subscribe to the
topic. The system takes care of distributing the messages arriving from
a topic's multiple publishers to its multiple subscribers. Topics retain
messages only as long as it takes to distribute them to subscribers.

With pub/sub messaging, it is important to distinguish between the
consumer that subscribes to a topic (the subscriber) and the
subscription that is created. The consumer is a JMS object within an
application, while the subscription is an entity within the JMS
provider. Normally, a topic can have many consumers, but a subscription
has only one subscriber. It is possible, however, to create shared
subscriptions; see link:jms-concepts003.html#BABJCIGJ[Creating Shared
Subscriptions] for details. See
link:jms-concepts003.html#BABEEJJJ[Consuming Messages from Topics] for
details on the semantics of pub/sub messaging.

Pub/sub messaging has the following characteristics.

* Each message can have multiple consumers.
* A client that subscribes to a topic can consume only messages sent
after the client has created a subscription, and the consumer must
continue to be active in order for it to consume messages.
+
The JMS API relaxes this requirement to some extent by allowing
applications to create durable subscriptions, which receive messages
sent while the consumers are not active. Durable subscriptions provide
the flexibility and reliability of queues but still allow clients to
send messages to many recipients. For more information about durable
subscriptions, see link:jms-concepts003.html#BNCGD[Creating Durable
Subscriptions].

Use pub/sub messaging when each message can be processed by any number
of consumers (or none). link:#BNCEE[Figure 48-4] illustrates pub/sub
messaging.

[[BNCEE]]

.*Figure 48-4 Publish/Subscribe Messaging*

image:img/jakartaeett_dt_029.png[
"Diagram of pub/sub messaging, showing Client 1 sending a message to a
topic, and the message being delivered to two consumers to the topic"]

[[BNCEG]][[message-consumption]]

Message Consumption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Messaging products are inherently asynchronous: There is no fundamental
timing dependency between the production and the consumption of a
message. However, the JMS specification uses this term in a more precise
sense. Messages can be consumed in either of two ways.

* Synchronously: A consumer explicitly fetches the message from the
destination by calling the `receive` method. The `receive` method can
block until a message arrives or can time out if a message does not
arrive within a specified time limit.
* Asynchronously: An application client or a Java SE client can register
a message listener with a consumer. A message listener is similar to an
event listener. Whenever a message arrives at the destination, the JMS
provider delivers the message by calling the listener's `onMessage`
method, which acts on the contents of the message. In a Jakarta EE
application, a message-driven bean serves as a message listener (it too
has an `onMessage` method), but a client does not need to register it
with a consumer.
