src/main/jbake/content/jsf-intro001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction to JavaServer Faces Technology
next=jsf-intro002.html
prev=jsf-intro.html
~~~~~~
Introduction to JavaServer Faces Technology
===========================================

[[A1073698]][[introduction-to-javaserver-faces-technology]]

Introduction to JavaServer Faces Technology
-------------------------------------------

JavaServer Faces technology consists of the following:

* An API for representing components and managing their state; handling
events, server-side validation, and data conversion; defining page
navigation; supporting internationalization and accessibility; and
providing extensibility for all these features
* Tag libraries for adding components to web pages and for connecting
components to server-side objects

JavaServer Faces technology provides a well-defined programming model
and various tag libraries. The tag libraries contain tag handlers that
implement the component tags. These features significantly ease the
burden of building and maintaining web applications with server-side
user interfaces (UIs). With minimal effort, you can complete the
following tasks.

* Create a web page.
* Drop components onto a web page by adding component tags.
* Bind components on a page to server-side data.
* Wire component-generated events to server-side application code.
* Save and restore application state beyond the life of server requests.
* Reuse and extend components through customization.

This chapter provides an overview of JavaServer Faces technology. After
explaining what a JavaServer Faces application is and reviewing some of
the primary benefits of using JavaServer Faces technology, this chapter
describes the process of creating a simple JavaServer Faces application.
This chapter also introduces the JavaServer Faces lifecycle by
describing the example JavaServer Faces application and its progression
through the lifecycle stages.

Commit message:

First pass at JSF (#157)
* First pass at JSF

Renamed Jakarta Faces

* Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces

Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-intro001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction to Jakarta Server Faces Technology
next=jsf-intro002.html
prev=jsf-intro.html
~~~~~~
Introduction to Jakarta Server Faces Technology
===============================================

[[A1073698]][[introduction-to-javaserver-faces-technology]]

Introduction to Jakarta Server Faces Technology
-----------------------------------------------

Jakarta Server Faces technology consists of the following:

* An API for representing components and managing their state; handling
events, server-side validation, and data conversion; defining page
navigation; supporting internationalization and accessibility; and
providing extensibility for all these features
* Tag libraries for adding components to web pages and for connecting
components to server-side objects

Jakarta Server Faces technology provides a well-defined programming model
and various tag libraries. The tag libraries contain tag handlers that
implement the component tags. These features significantly ease the
burden of building and maintaining web applications with server-side
user interfaces (UIs). With minimal effort, you can complete the
following tasks.

* Create a web page.
* Drop components onto a web page by adding component tags.
* Bind components on a page to server-side data.
* Wire component-generated events to server-side application code.
* Save and restore application state beyond the life of server requests.
* Reuse and extend components through customization.

This chapter provides an overview of Jakarta Server Faces technology. After
explaining what a Jakarta Server Faces application is and reviewing some of
the primary benefits of using Jakarta Server Faces technology, this chapter
describes the process of creating a simple Jakarta Server Faces application.
This chapter also introduces the Jakarta Server Faces lifecycle by
describing the example Jakarta Server Faces application and its progression
through the lifecycle stages.
