src/main/jbake/content/jsf-ajax008.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Ajax Request Lifecycle
next=jsf-ajax009.html
prev=jsf-ajax007.html
~~~~~~
Ajax Request Lifecycle
======================

[[GKUAR]][[ajax-request-lifecycle]]

Ajax Request Lifecycle
----------------------

An Ajax request varies from other typical Jakarta Faces requests, and
its processing is also handled differently by the Jakarta Faces
lifecycle.

As described in link:jsf-intro008.html#GKNOJ[Partial Processing and
Partial Rendering], when an Ajax request is received, the state
associated with that request is captured by the
`javax.faces.context.PartialViewContext`. This object provides access to
information such as which components are targeted for
processing/rendering. The `processPartial` method of
`PartialViewContext` uses this information to perform partial component
tree processing and rendering.

The `execute` attribute of the `f:ajax` tag identifies which segments of
the server-side component tree should be processed. Because components
can be uniquely identified in the Jakarta Faces component tree, it is
easy to identify and process a single component, a few components, or a
whole tree. This is made possible by the `visitTree` method of the
`UIComponent` class. The identified components then run through the
Jakarta Faces request lifecycle phases.

Similar to the `execute` attribute, the `render` attribute identifies
which segments of the Jakarta Faces component tree need to be
rendered during the render response phase.

During the render response phase, the `render` attribute is examined.
The identified components are found and asked to render themselves and
their children. The components are then packaged up and sent back to the
client as a response.

Commit message:

Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces
Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-ajax008.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Ajax Request Lifecycle
next=jsf-ajax009.html
prev=jsf-ajax007.html
~~~~~~
Ajax Request Lifecycle
======================

[[GKUAR]][[ajax-request-lifecycle]]

Ajax Request Lifecycle
----------------------

An Ajax request varies from other typical Jakarta Server Faces requests, and
its processing is also handled differently by the Jakarta Server Faces
lifecycle.

As described in link:jsf-intro008.html#GKNOJ[Partial Processing and
Partial Rendering], when an Ajax request is received, the state
associated with that request is captured by the
`javax.faces.context.PartialViewContext`. This object provides access to
information such as which components are targeted for
processing/rendering. The `processPartial` method of
`PartialViewContext` uses this information to perform partial component
tree processing and rendering.

The `execute` attribute of the `f:ajax` tag identifies which segments of
the server-side component tree should be processed. Because components
can be uniquely identified in the Jakarta Server Faces component tree, it is
easy to identify and process a single component, a few components, or a
whole tree. This is made possible by the `visitTree` method of the
`UIComponent` class. The identified components then run through the
Jakarta Server Faces request lifecycle phases.

Similar to the `execute` attribute, the `render` attribute identifies
which segments of the Jakarta Server Faces component tree need to be
rendered during the render response phase.

During the render response phase, the `render` attribute is examined.
The identified components are found and asked to render themselves and
their children. The components are then packaged up and sent back to the
client as a response.
