src/main/jbake/content/jsf-configure003.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Application Configuration Resource File
next=jsf-configure004.html
prev=jsf-configure002.html
~~~~~~
Application Configuration Resource File
=======================================

[[BNAWP]][[application-configuration-resource-file]]

Application Configuration Resource File
---------------------------------------

Jakarta Faces technology provides a portable configuration format (as
an XML document) for configuring application resources. One or more XML
documents, called application configuration resource files, may use this
format to register and configure objects and resources and to define
navigation rules for applications. An application configuration resource
file is usually named `faces-config.xml`.

You need an application configuration resource file in the following
cases:

* To specify configuration elements for your application that are not
available through managed bean annotations, such as localized messages
and navigation rules
* To override managed bean annotations when the application is deployed

The application configuration resource file must be valid against the
XML schema located at
`http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee/web-facesconfig_2_2.xsd`.

In addition, each file must include the following information, in the
following order:

* The XML version number, usually with an `encoding` attribute:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding='UTF-8'?>
----
* A `faces-config` tag enclosing all the other declarations:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config version="2.2" xmlns="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee" 
              xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
              xsi:schemaLocation="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee 
              http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee/web-facesconfig_2_2.xsd"> 
    ...
</faces-config>
----

You can have more than one application configuration resource file for
an application. The Jakarta Faces implementation finds the
configuration file or files by looking for the following.

* A resource named `/META-INF/faces-config.xml` in any of the JAR files
in the web application's `/WEB-INF/lib/` directory and in parent class
loaders. If a resource with this name exists, it is loaded as a
configuration resource. This method is practical for a packaged library
containing some components and renderers. In addition, any file with a
name that ends in `faces-config.xml` is also considered a configuration
resource and is loaded as such.
* A context initialization parameter,
`javax.faces.application.CONFIG_FILES`, in your web deployment
descriptor file that specifies one or more (comma-delimited) paths to
multiple configuration files for your web application. This method is
most often used for enterprise-scale applications that delegate to
separate groups the responsibility for maintaining the file for each
portion of a big application.
* A resource named `faces-config.xml` in the `/WEB-INF/` directory of
your application. Simple web applications make their configuration files
available in this way.

To access the resources registered with the application, an application
developer can use an instance of the
`javax.faces.application.Application` class, which is automatically
created for each application. The `Application` instance acts as a
centralized factory for resources that are defined in the XML file.

When an application starts up, the Jakarta Faces implementation
creates a single instance of the `Application` class and configures it
with the information you provided in the application configuration
resource file.

[[GIREP]][[configuring-eager-application-scoped-managed-beans]]

Configuring Eager Application-Scoped Managed Beans
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Jakarta Faces managed beans (either specified in the
f`aces-config.xml` file or annotated with
`javax.faces.bean.ManagedBean`) are lazily instantiated. That is, that
they are instantiated when a request is made from the application.

To force an application-scoped bean to be instantiated and placed in the
application scope as soon as the application is started and before any
request is made, the `eager` attribute of the managed bean should be set
to `true`, as shown in the following examples.

The `faces-config.xml` file declaration is as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<managed-bean eager="true">
----

The annotation is as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@ManagedBean(eager=true)
@ApplicationScoped
----

[[GIQCK]][[ordering-of-application-configuration-resource-files]]

Ordering of Application Configuration Resource Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Because Jakarta Faces technology allows the use of multiple
application configuration resource files stored in different locations,
the order in which they are loaded by the implementation becomes
important in certain situations (for example, when using
application-level objects). This order can be defined through an
`ordering` element and its subelements in the application configuration
resource file itself. The ordering of application configuration resource
files can be absolute or relative.

Absolute ordering is defined by an `absolute-ordering` element in the
file. With absolute ordering, the user specifies the order in which
application configuration resource files will be loaded. The following
example shows an entry for absolute ordering.

File `my-faces-config.xml` contains the following elements:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config>
    <name>myJSF</name>
    <absolute-ordering>
        <name>A</name>
        <name>B</name>
        <name>C</name>
    </absolute-ordering>
</faces-config>
----

In this example, A, B, and C are different application configuration
resource files and are to be loaded in the listed order.

If there is an `absolute-ordering` element in the file, only the files
listed by the subelement `name` are processed. To process any other
application configuration resource files, an `others` subelement is
required. In the absence of the `others` subelement, all other unlisted
files will be ignored at load time.

Relative ordering is defined by an `ordering` element and its
subelements `before` and `after`. With relative ordering, the order in
which application configuration resource files will be loaded is
calculated by considering ordering entries from the different files. The
following example shows some of these considerations. In the following
example, `config-A`, `config-B`, and `config-C` are different
application configuration resource files.

File `config-A` contains the following elements:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config>
    <name>config-A</name>
    <ordering>
        <before>
            <name>config-B</name>
        </before>
    </ordering>
</faces-config>
----

File `config-B` (not shown here) does not contain any `ordering`
elements.

File `config-C` contains the following elements:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config>
    <name>config-C</name>
    <ordering>
        <after>
            <name>config-B</name>
        </after>
    </ordering>
</faces-config>
----

Based on the `before` subelement entry, file `config-A` will be loaded
before the `config-B` file. Based on the `after` subelement entry, file
`config-C` will be loaded after the `config-B` file.

In addition, a subelement `others` can also be nested within the
`before` and `after` subelements. If the `others` element is present,
the specified file may receive highest or lowest preference among both
listed and unlisted configuration files.

If an `ordering` element is not present in an application configuration
file, then that file will be loaded after all the files that contain
`ordering` elements.

Commit message:

Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces
Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-configure003.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Application Configuration Resource File
next=jsf-configure004.html
prev=jsf-configure002.html
~~~~~~
Application Configuration Resource File
=======================================

[[BNAWP]][[application-configuration-resource-file]]

Application Configuration Resource File
---------------------------------------

Jakarta Server Faces technology provides a portable configuration format (as
an XML document) for configuring application resources. One or more XML
documents, called application configuration resource files, may use this
format to register and configure objects and resources and to define
navigation rules for applications. An application configuration resource
file is usually named `faces-config.xml`.

You need an application configuration resource file in the following
cases:

* To specify configuration elements for your application that are not
available through managed bean annotations, such as localized messages
and navigation rules
* To override managed bean annotations when the application is deployed

The application configuration resource file must be valid against the
XML schema located at
`http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee/web-facesconfig_2_2.xsd`.

In addition, each file must include the following information, in the
following order:

* The XML version number, usually with an `encoding` attribute:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding='UTF-8'?>
----
* A `faces-config` tag enclosing all the other declarations:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config version="2.2" xmlns="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee" 
              xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
              xsi:schemaLocation="http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee 
              http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/javaee/web-facesconfig_2_2.xsd"> 
    ...
</faces-config>
----

You can have more than one application configuration resource file for
an application. The Jakarta Server Faces implementation finds the
configuration file or files by looking for the following.

* A resource named `/META-INF/faces-config.xml` in any of the JAR files
in the web application's `/WEB-INF/lib/` directory and in parent class
loaders. If a resource with this name exists, it is loaded as a
configuration resource. This method is practical for a packaged library
containing some components and renderers. In addition, any file with a
name that ends in `faces-config.xml` is also considered a configuration
resource and is loaded as such.
* A context initialization parameter,
`javax.faces.application.CONFIG_FILES`, in your web deployment
descriptor file that specifies one or more (comma-delimited) paths to
multiple configuration files for your web application. This method is
most often used for enterprise-scale applications that delegate to
separate groups the responsibility for maintaining the file for each
portion of a big application.
* A resource named `faces-config.xml` in the `/WEB-INF/` directory of
your application. Simple web applications make their configuration files
available in this way.

To access the resources registered with the application, an application
developer can use an instance of the
`javax.faces.application.Application` class, which is automatically
created for each application. The `Application` instance acts as a
centralized factory for resources that are defined in the XML file.

When an application starts up, the Jakarta Server Faces implementation
creates a single instance of the `Application` class and configures it
with the information you provided in the application configuration
resource file.

[[GIREP]][[configuring-eager-application-scoped-managed-beans]]

Configuring Eager Application-Scoped Managed Beans
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Jakarta Server Faces managed beans (either specified in the
f`aces-config.xml` file or annotated with
`javax.faces.bean.ManagedBean`) are lazily instantiated. That is, that
they are instantiated when a request is made from the application.

To force an application-scoped bean to be instantiated and placed in the
application scope as soon as the application is started and before any
request is made, the `eager` attribute of the managed bean should be set
to `true`, as shown in the following examples.

The `faces-config.xml` file declaration is as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<managed-bean eager="true">
----

The annotation is as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@ManagedBean(eager=true)
@ApplicationScoped
----

[[GIQCK]][[ordering-of-application-configuration-resource-files]]

Ordering of Application Configuration Resource Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Because Jakarta Server Faces technology allows the use of multiple
application configuration resource files stored in different locations,
the order in which they are loaded by the implementation becomes
important in certain situations (for example, when using
application-level objects). This order can be defined through an
`ordering` element and its subelements in the application configuration
resource file itself. The ordering of application configuration resource
files can be absolute or relative.

Absolute ordering is defined by an `absolute-ordering` element in the
file. With absolute ordering, the user specifies the order in which
application configuration resource files will be loaded. The following
example shows an entry for absolute ordering.

File `my-faces-config.xml` contains the following elements:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config>
    <name>myJSF</name>
    <absolute-ordering>
        <name>A</name>
        <name>B</name>
        <name>C</name>
    </absolute-ordering>
</faces-config>
----

In this example, A, B, and C are different application configuration
resource files and are to be loaded in the listed order.

If there is an `absolute-ordering` element in the file, only the files
listed by the subelement `name` are processed. To process any other
application configuration resource files, an `others` subelement is
required. In the absence of the `others` subelement, all other unlisted
files will be ignored at load time.

Relative ordering is defined by an `ordering` element and its
subelements `before` and `after`. With relative ordering, the order in
which application configuration resource files will be loaded is
calculated by considering ordering entries from the different files. The
following example shows some of these considerations. In the following
example, `config-A`, `config-B`, and `config-C` are different
application configuration resource files.

File `config-A` contains the following elements:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config>
    <name>config-A</name>
    <ordering>
        <before>
            <name>config-B</name>
        </before>
    </ordering>
</faces-config>
----

File `config-B` (not shown here) does not contain any `ordering`
elements.

File `config-C` contains the following elements:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<faces-config>
    <name>config-C</name>
    <ordering>
        <after>
            <name>config-B</name>
        </after>
    </ordering>
</faces-config>
----

Based on the `before` subelement entry, file `config-A` will be loaded
before the `config-B` file. Based on the `after` subelement entry, file
`config-C` will be loaded after the `config-B` file.

In addition, a subelement `others` can also be nested within the
`before` and `after` subelements. If the `others` element is present,
the specified file may receive highest or lowest preference among both
listed and unlisted configuration files.

If an `ordering` element is not present in an application configuration
file, then that file will be loaded after all the files that contain
`ordering` elements.
