src/main/jbake/content/jsf-custom002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Determining Whether You Need a Custom Component or Renderer
next=jsf-custom003.html
prev=jsf-custom001.html
~~~~~~
= Determining Whether You Need a Custom Component or Renderer


[[BNAVH]][[determining-whether-you-need-a-custom-component-or-renderer]]

Determining Whether You Need a Custom Component or Renderer
-----------------------------------------------------------

The JavaServer Faces implementation supports a very basic set of
components and associated renderers. This section helps you to decide
whether you can use standard components and renderers in your
application or need a custom component or custom renderer.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNAVI[When to Use a Custom Component]
* link:#BNAVJ[When to Use a Custom Renderer]
* link:#BNAVK[Component, Renderer, and Tag Combinations]

[[BNAVI]][[when-to-use-a-custom-component]]

When to Use a Custom Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A component class defines the state and behavior of a UI component. This
behavior includes converting the value of a component to the appropriate
markup, queuing events on components, performing validation, and any
other behavior related to how the component interacts with the browser
and the request-processing lifecycle.

You need to create a custom component in the following situations.

* You need to add new behavior to a standard component, such as
generating an additional type of event (for example, notifying another
part of the page that something changed in this component as a result of
user interaction).
* You need to take a different action in the request processing of the
value of a component from what is available in any of the existing
standard components.
* You want to take advantage of an HTML capability offered by your
target browser, but none of the standard JavaServer Faces components
take advantage of the capability in the way you want, if at all. The
current release does not contain standard components for complex HTML
components, such as frames; however, because of the extensibility of the
component architecture, you can use JavaServer Faces technology to
create components like these. The Duke's Bookstore case study creates
custom components that correspond to the HTML `map` and `area` tags.
* You need to render to a non-HTML client that requires extra components
not supported by HTML. Eventually, the standard HTML render kit will
provide support for all standard HTML components. However, if you are
rendering to a different client, such as a phone, you might need to
create custom components to represent the controls uniquely supported by
the client. For example, some component architectures for wireless
clients include support for tickers and progress bars, which are not
available on an HTML client. In this case, you might also need a custom
renderer along with the component, or you might need only a custom
renderer.

You do not need to create a custom component in the following cases.

* You need to aggregate components to create a new component that has
its own unique behavior. In this situation, you can use a composite
component to combine existing standard components. For more information
on composite components, see link:jsf-facelets005.html#GIQZR[Composite
Components] and link:jsf-advanced-cc.html#GKHXA[Chapter 14, "Composite
Components: Advanced Topics and an Example"].
* You simply need to manipulate data on the component or add
application-specific functionality to it. In this situation, you should
create a managed bean for this purpose and bind it to the standard
component rather than create a custom component. See
link:jsf-develop001.html#BNAQM[Managed Beans in JavaServer Faces
Technology] for more information on managed beans.
* You need to convert a component's data to a type not supported by its
renderer. See link:jsf-page-core001.html#BNAST[Using the Standard
Converters] for more information about converting a component's data.
* You need to perform validation on the component data. Standard
validators and custom validators can be added to a component by using
the validator tags from the page. See
link:jsf-page-core003.html#BNATC[Using the Standard Validators] and
link:jsf-custom012.html#BNAUW[Creating and Using a Custom Validator] for
more information about validating a component's data.
* You need to register event listeners on components. You can either
register event listeners on components using the `f:valueChangeListener`
and `f:actionListener` tags, or you can point at an event-processing
method on a managed bean using the component's `actionListener` or
`valueChangeListener` attributes. See
link:jsf-custom007.html#BNAUT[Implementing an Event Listener] and
link:jsf-develop003.html#BNAVB[Writing Managed Bean Methods] for more
information.

[[BNAVJ]][[when-to-use-a-custom-renderer]]

When to Use a Custom Renderer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A renderer, which generates the markup to display a component on a web
page, allows you to separate the semantics of a component from its
appearance. By keeping this separation, you can support different kinds
of client devices with the same kind of authoring experience. You can
think of a renderer as a "client adapter." It produces output suitable
for consumption and display by the client and accepts input from the
client when the user interacts with that component.

If you are creating a custom component, you need to ensure, among other
things, that your component class performs these operations that are
central to rendering the component:

* Decoding: Converting the incoming request parameters to the local
value of the component
* Encoding: Converting the current local value of the component into the
corresponding markup that represents it in the response

The JavaServer Faces specification supports two programming models for
handling encoding and decoding.

* Direct implementation: The component class itself implements the
decoding and encoding.
* Delegated implementation: The component class delegates the
implementation of encoding and decoding to a separate renderer.

By delegating the operations to the renderer, you have the option of
associating your custom component with different renderers so that you
can render the component on different clients. If you don't plan to
render a particular component on different clients, it may be simpler to
let the component class handle the rendering. However, a separate
renderer enables you to preserve the separation of semantics from
appearance. The Duke's Bookstore application separates the renderers
from the components, although it renders only to HTML 4 web browsers.

If you aren't sure whether you will need the flexibility offered by
separate renderers but you want to use the simpler direct-implementation
approach, you can actually use both models. Your component class can
include some default rendering code, but it can delegate rendering to a
renderer if there is one.

[[BNAVK]][[component-renderer-and-tag-combinations]]

Component, Renderer, and Tag Combinations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you create a custom component, you can create a custom renderer to
go with it. To associate the component with the renderer and to
reference the component from the page, you will also need a custom tag.

Although you need to write the custom component and renderer, there is
no need to write code for a custom tag (called a tag handler). If you
specify the component and renderer combination, Facelets creates the tag
handler automatically.

In rare situations, you might use a custom renderer with a standard
component rather than a custom component. Or you might use a custom tag
without a renderer or a component. This section gives examples of these
situations and summarizes what is required for a custom component,
renderer, and tag.

You would use a custom renderer without a custom component if you wanted
to add some client-side validation on a standard component. You would
implement the validation code with a client-side scripting language,
such as JavaScript, and then render the JavaScript with the custom
renderer. In this situation, you need a custom tag to go with the
renderer so that its tag handler can register the renderer on the
standard component.

Custom components as well as custom renderers need custom tags
associated with them. However, you can have a custom tag without a
custom renderer or custom component. For example, suppose that you need
to create a custom validator that requires extra attributes on the
validator tag. In this case, the custom tag corresponds to a custom
validator and not to a custom component or custom renderer. In any case,
you still need to associate the custom tag with a server-side object.

link:#BNAVL[Table 15-1] summarizes what you must or can associate with a
custom component, custom renderer, or custom tag.

[[sthref76]][[BNAVL]]

*Table 15-1 Requirements for Custom Components, Custom Renderers, and
Custom Tags*

[width="90%",cols="34%,30%,36%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Custom Item* |*Must Have* |*Can Have*
|Custom component |Custom tag |Custom renderer or standard renderer

|Custom renderer |Custom tag |Custom component or standard component

|Custom JavaServer Faces tag |Some server-side object, like a component,
a custom renderer, or custom validator |Custom component or standard
component associated with a custom renderer
|=======================================================================

Commit message:

First pass at JSF
Renamed Jakarta Faces

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-custom002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Determining Whether You Need a Custom Component or Renderer
next=jsf-custom003.html
prev=jsf-custom001.html
~~~~~~
= Determining Whether You Need a Custom Component or Renderer


[[BNAVH]][[determining-whether-you-need-a-custom-component-or-renderer]]

Determining Whether You Need a Custom Component or Renderer
-----------------------------------------------------------

The Jakarta Faces implementation supports a very basic set of
components and associated renderers. This section helps you to decide
whether you can use standard components and renderers in your
application or need a custom component or custom renderer.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNAVI[When to Use a Custom Component]
* link:#BNAVJ[When to Use a Custom Renderer]
* link:#BNAVK[Component, Renderer, and Tag Combinations]

[[BNAVI]][[when-to-use-a-custom-component]]

When to Use a Custom Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A component class defines the state and behavior of a UI component. This
behavior includes converting the value of a component to the appropriate
markup, queuing events on components, performing validation, and any
other behavior related to how the component interacts with the browser
and the request-processing lifecycle.

You need to create a custom component in the following situations.

* You need to add new behavior to a standard component, such as
generating an additional type of event (for example, notifying another
part of the page that something changed in this component as a result of
user interaction).
* You need to take a different action in the request processing of the
value of a component from what is available in any of the existing
standard components.
* You want to take advantage of an HTML capability offered by your
target browser, but none of the standard Jakarta Faces components
take advantage of the capability in the way you want, if at all. The
current release does not contain standard components for complex HTML
components, such as frames; however, because of the extensibility of the
component architecture, you can use Jakarta Faces technology to
create components like these. The Duke's Bookstore case study creates
custom components that correspond to the HTML `map` and `area` tags.
* You need to render to a non-HTML client that requires extra components
not supported by HTML. Eventually, the standard HTML render kit will
provide support for all standard HTML components. However, if you are
rendering to a different client, such as a phone, you might need to
create custom components to represent the controls uniquely supported by
the client. For example, some component architectures for wireless
clients include support for tickers and progress bars, which are not
available on an HTML client. In this case, you might also need a custom
renderer along with the component, or you might need only a custom
renderer.

You do not need to create a custom component in the following cases.

* You need to aggregate components to create a new component that has
its own unique behavior. In this situation, you can use a composite
component to combine existing standard components. For more information
on composite components, see link:jsf-facelets005.html#GIQZR[Composite
Components] and link:jsf-advanced-cc.html#GKHXA[Chapter 14, "Composite
Components: Advanced Topics and an Example"].
* You simply need to manipulate data on the component or add
application-specific functionality to it. In this situation, you should
create a managed bean for this purpose and bind it to the standard
component rather than create a custom component. See
link:jsf-develop001.html#BNAQM[Managed Beans in Jakarta Faces
Technology] for more information on managed beans.
* You need to convert a component's data to a type not supported by its
renderer. See link:jsf-page-core001.html#BNAST[Using the Standard
Converters] for more information about converting a component's data.
* You need to perform validation on the component data. Standard
validators and custom validators can be added to a component by using
the validator tags from the page. See
link:jsf-page-core003.html#BNATC[Using the Standard Validators] and
link:jsf-custom012.html#BNAUW[Creating and Using a Custom Validator] for
more information about validating a component's data.
* You need to register event listeners on components. You can either
register event listeners on components using the `f:valueChangeListener`
and `f:actionListener` tags, or you can point at an event-processing
method on a managed bean using the component's `actionListener` or
`valueChangeListener` attributes. See
link:jsf-custom007.html#BNAUT[Implementing an Event Listener] and
link:jsf-develop003.html#BNAVB[Writing Managed Bean Methods] for more
information.

[[BNAVJ]][[when-to-use-a-custom-renderer]]

When to Use a Custom Renderer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A renderer, which generates the markup to display a component on a web
page, allows you to separate the semantics of a component from its
appearance. By keeping this separation, you can support different kinds
of client devices with the same kind of authoring experience. You can
think of a renderer as a "client adapter." It produces output suitable
for consumption and display by the client and accepts input from the
client when the user interacts with that component.

If you are creating a custom component, you need to ensure, among other
things, that your component class performs these operations that are
central to rendering the component:

* Decoding: Converting the incoming request parameters to the local
value of the component
* Encoding: Converting the current local value of the component into the
corresponding markup that represents it in the response

The Jakarta Faces specification supports two programming models for
handling encoding and decoding.

* Direct implementation: The component class itself implements the
decoding and encoding.
* Delegated implementation: The component class delegates the
implementation of encoding and decoding to a separate renderer.

By delegating the operations to the renderer, you have the option of
associating your custom component with different renderers so that you
can render the component on different clients. If you don't plan to
render a particular component on different clients, it may be simpler to
let the component class handle the rendering. However, a separate
renderer enables you to preserve the separation of semantics from
appearance. The Duke's Bookstore application separates the renderers
from the components, although it renders only to HTML 4 web browsers.

If you aren't sure whether you will need the flexibility offered by
separate renderers but you want to use the simpler direct-implementation
approach, you can actually use both models. Your component class can
include some default rendering code, but it can delegate rendering to a
renderer if there is one.

[[BNAVK]][[component-renderer-and-tag-combinations]]

Component, Renderer, and Tag Combinations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you create a custom component, you can create a custom renderer to
go with it. To associate the component with the renderer and to
reference the component from the page, you will also need a custom tag.

Although you need to write the custom component and renderer, there is
no need to write code for a custom tag (called a tag handler). If you
specify the component and renderer combination, Facelets creates the tag
handler automatically.

In rare situations, you might use a custom renderer with a standard
component rather than a custom component. Or you might use a custom tag
without a renderer or a component. This section gives examples of these
situations and summarizes what is required for a custom component,
renderer, and tag.

You would use a custom renderer without a custom component if you wanted
to add some client-side validation on a standard component. You would
implement the validation code with a client-side scripting language,
such as JavaScript, and then render the JavaScript with the custom
renderer. In this situation, you need a custom tag to go with the
renderer so that its tag handler can register the renderer on the
standard component.

Custom components as well as custom renderers need custom tags
associated with them. However, you can have a custom tag without a
custom renderer or custom component. For example, suppose that you need
to create a custom validator that requires extra attributes on the
validator tag. In this case, the custom tag corresponds to a custom
validator and not to a custom component or custom renderer. In any case,
you still need to associate the custom tag with a server-side object.

link:#BNAVL[Table 15-1] summarizes what you must or can associate with a
custom component, custom renderer, or custom tag.

[[sthref76]][[BNAVL]]

*Table 15-1 Requirements for Custom Components, Custom Renderers, and
Custom Tags*

[width="90%",cols="34%,30%,36%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Custom Item* |*Must Have* |*Can Have*
|Custom component |Custom tag |Custom renderer or standard renderer

|Custom renderer |Custom tag |Custom component or standard component

|Custom Jakarta Faces tag |Some server-side object, like a component,
a custom renderer, or custom validator |Custom component or standard
component associated with a custom renderer
|=======================================================================
