src/main/jbake/content/jsf-develop001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Managed Beans in JavaServer Faces Technology
next=jsf-develop002.html
prev=jsf-develop.html
~~~~~~
= Managed Beans in JavaServer Faces Technology


[[BNAQM]][[managed-beans-in-javaserver-faces-technology]]

Managed Beans in JavaServer Faces Technology
--------------------------------------------

A typical JavaServer Faces application includes one or more managed
beans, each of which can be associated with the components used in a
particular page. This section introduces the basic concepts of creating,
configuring, and using managed beans in an application.


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Note*:

link:jsf-page.html#BNAQZ[Chapter 10, "Using JavaServer Faces Technology
in Web Pages"] and link:jsf-page-core.html#GJCUT[Chapter 11, "Using
Converters, Listeners, and Validators"] show how to add components to a
page and connect them to server-side objects by using component tags and
core tags. These chapters also show how to provide additional
functionality to the components through converters, listeners, and
validators. Developing a JavaServer Faces application also involves the
task of programming the server-side objects: managed beans, converters,
event handlers, and validators.

|=======================================================================


The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNAQN[Creating a Managed Bean]
* link:#BNAQP[Using the EL to Reference Managed Beans]

[[BNAQN]][[creating-a-managed-bean]]

Creating a Managed Bean
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A managed bean is created with a constructor with no arguments, a set of
properties, and a set of methods that perform functions for a component.
Each of the managed bean properties can be bound to one of the
following:

* A component value
* A component instance
* A converter instance
* A listener instance
* A validator instance

The most common functions that managed bean methods perform include the
following:

* Validating a component's data
* Handling an event fired by a component
* Performing processing to determine the next page to which the
application must navigate

As with all JavaBeans components, a property consists of a private data
field and a set of accessor methods, as shown by this code:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
private Integer userNumber = null;
...
public void setUserNumber(Integer user_number) {
    userNumber = user_number;
}
public Integer getUserNumber() {
    return userNumber;
}
----

When bound to a component's value, a bean property can be any of the
basic primitive and numeric types or any Java object type for which the
application has access to an appropriate converter. For example, a
property can be of type `java.util.Date` if the application has access
to a converter that can convert the `Date` type to a `String` and back
again. See link:jsf-develop002.html#BNATY[Writing Bean Properties] for
information on which types are accepted by which component tags.

When a bean property is bound to a component instance, the property's
type must be the same as the component object. For example, if a
`javax.faces.component.UISelectBoolean` component is bound to the
property, the property must accept and return a `UISelectBoolean`
object. Likewise, if the property is bound to a converter, validator, or
listener instance, the property must be of the appropriate converter,
validator, or listener type.

For more information on writing beans and their properties, see
link:jsf-develop002.html#BNATY[Writing Bean Properties].

[[BNAQP]][[using-the-el-to-reference-managed-beans]]

Using the EL to Reference Managed Beans
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To bind component values and objects to managed bean properties or to
reference managed bean methods from component tags, page authors use the
Expression Language syntax. As explained in
link:jsf-el001.html#BNAHQ[Overview of the EL], the following are some of
the features that the EL offers:

* Deferred evaluation of expressions
* The ability to use a value expression to both read and write data
* Method expressions

Deferred evaluation of expressions is important because the JavaServer
Faces lifecycle is split into several phases in which component event
handling, data conversion and validation, and data propagation to
external objects are all performed in an orderly fashion. The
implementation must be able to delay the evaluation of expressions until
the proper phase of the lifecycle has been reached. Therefore, the
implementation's tag attributes always use deferred-evaluation syntax,
which is distinguished by the `#{}` delimiter.

To store data in external objects, almost all JavaServer Faces tag
attributes use lvalue expressions, which are expressions that allow both
getting and setting data on external objects.

Finally, some component tag attributes accept method expressions that
reference methods that handle component events or validate or convert
component data.

To illustrate a JavaServer Faces tag using the EL, the following tag
references a method that validates user input:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText id="inputGuess"
    value="#{userNumberBean.userNumber}"
    required="true" size="3"
    disabled="#{userNumberBean.number eq userNumberBean.userNumber ...}"
    validator="#{userNumberBean.validateNumberRange}">
</h:inputText>
----

This tag binds the `inputGuess` component's value to the
`UserNumberBean.userNumber` managed bean property by using an lvalue
expression. The tag uses a method expression to refer to the
`UserNumberBean.validateNumberRange` method, which performs validation
of the component's local value. The local value is whatever the user
types into the field corresponding to this tag. This method is invoked
when the expression is evaluated.

Nearly all JavaServer Faces tag attributes accept value expressions. In
addition to referencing bean properties, value expressions can reference
lists, maps, arrays, implicit objects, and resource bundles.

Another use of value expressions is to bind a component instance to a
managed bean property. A page author does this by referencing the
property from the `binding` attribute:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:outputLabel for="fanClub"
               rendered="false"
               binding="#{cashierBean.specialOfferText}">
               value="#{bundle.DukeFanClub}"/>
</h:outputLabel>
----

In addition to using expressions with the standard component tags, you
can configure your custom component properties to accept expressions by
creating `javax.el.ValueExpression` or `javax.el.MethodExpression`
instances for them.

For information on the EL, see link:jsf-el.html#GJDDD[Chapter 9,
"Expression Language"].

For information on referencing managed bean methods from component tags,
see link:jsf-page-core004.html#BNATN[Referencing a Managed Bean Method].

Commit message:

First pass at JSF
Renamed Jakarta Faces

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-develop001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Managed Beans in Jakarta Faces Technology
next=jsf-develop002.html
prev=jsf-develop.html
~~~~~~
= Managed Beans in Jakarta Faces Technology


[[BNAQM]][[managed-beans-in-javaserver-faces-technology]]

Managed Beans in Jakarta Faces Technology
--------------------------------------------

A typical Jakarta Faces application includes one or more managed
beans, each of which can be associated with the components used in a
particular page. This section introduces the basic concepts of creating,
configuring, and using managed beans in an application.


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Note*:

link:jsf-page.html#BNAQZ[Chapter 10, "Using Jakarta Faces Technology
in Web Pages"] and link:jsf-page-core.html#GJCUT[Chapter 11, "Using
Converters, Listeners, and Validators"] show how to add components to a
page and connect them to server-side objects by using component tags and
core tags. These chapters also show how to provide additional
functionality to the components through converters, listeners, and
validators. Developing a Jakarta Faces application also involves the
task of programming the server-side objects: managed beans, converters,
event handlers, and validators.

|=======================================================================


The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNAQN[Creating a Managed Bean]
* link:#BNAQP[Using the EL to Reference Managed Beans]

[[BNAQN]][[creating-a-managed-bean]]

Creating a Managed Bean
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A managed bean is created with a constructor with no arguments, a set of
properties, and a set of methods that perform functions for a component.
Each of the managed bean properties can be bound to one of the
following:

* A component value
* A component instance
* A converter instance
* A listener instance
* A validator instance

The most common functions that managed bean methods perform include the
following:

* Validating a component's data
* Handling an event fired by a component
* Performing processing to determine the next page to which the
application must navigate

As with all JavaBeans components, a property consists of a private data
field and a set of accessor methods, as shown by this code:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
private Integer userNumber = null;
...
public void setUserNumber(Integer user_number) {
    userNumber = user_number;
}
public Integer getUserNumber() {
    return userNumber;
}
----

When bound to a component's value, a bean property can be any of the
basic primitive and numeric types or any Java object type for which the
application has access to an appropriate converter. For example, a
property can be of type `java.util.Date` if the application has access
to a converter that can convert the `Date` type to a `String` and back
again. See link:jsf-develop002.html#BNATY[Writing Bean Properties] for
information on which types are accepted by which component tags.

When a bean property is bound to a component instance, the property's
type must be the same as the component object. For example, if a
`javax.faces.component.UISelectBoolean` component is bound to the
property, the property must accept and return a `UISelectBoolean`
object. Likewise, if the property is bound to a converter, validator, or
listener instance, the property must be of the appropriate converter,
validator, or listener type.

For more information on writing beans and their properties, see
link:jsf-develop002.html#BNATY[Writing Bean Properties].

[[BNAQP]][[using-the-el-to-reference-managed-beans]]

Using the EL to Reference Managed Beans
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To bind component values and objects to managed bean properties or to
reference managed bean methods from component tags, page authors use the
Expression Language syntax. As explained in
link:jsf-el001.html#BNAHQ[Overview of the EL], the following are some of
the features that the EL offers:

* Deferred evaluation of expressions
* The ability to use a value expression to both read and write data
* Method expressions

Deferred evaluation of expressions is important because the Jakarta Server
Faces lifecycle is split into several phases in which component event
handling, data conversion and validation, and data propagation to
external objects are all performed in an orderly fashion. The
implementation must be able to delay the evaluation of expressions until
the proper phase of the lifecycle has been reached. Therefore, the
implementation's tag attributes always use deferred-evaluation syntax,
which is distinguished by the `#{}` delimiter.

To store data in external objects, almost all Jakarta Faces tag
attributes use lvalue expressions, which are expressions that allow both
getting and setting data on external objects.

Finally, some component tag attributes accept method expressions that
reference methods that handle component events or validate or convert
component data.

To illustrate a Jakarta Faces tag using the EL, the following tag
references a method that validates user input:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText id="inputGuess"
    value="#{userNumberBean.userNumber}"
    required="true" size="3"
    disabled="#{userNumberBean.number eq userNumberBean.userNumber ...}"
    validator="#{userNumberBean.validateNumberRange}">
</h:inputText>
----

This tag binds the `inputGuess` component's value to the
`UserNumberBean.userNumber` managed bean property by using an lvalue
expression. The tag uses a method expression to refer to the
`UserNumberBean.validateNumberRange` method, which performs validation
of the component's local value. The local value is whatever the user
types into the field corresponding to this tag. This method is invoked
when the expression is evaluated.

Nearly all Jakarta Faces tag attributes accept value expressions. In
addition to referencing bean properties, value expressions can reference
lists, maps, arrays, implicit objects, and resource bundles.

Another use of value expressions is to bind a component instance to a
managed bean property. A page author does this by referencing the
property from the `binding` attribute:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:outputLabel for="fanClub"
               rendered="false"
               binding="#{cashierBean.specialOfferText}">
               value="#{bundle.DukeFanClub}"/>
</h:outputLabel>
----

In addition to using expressions with the standard component tags, you
can configure your custom component properties to accept expressions by
creating `javax.el.ValueExpression` or `javax.el.MethodExpression`
instances for them.

For information on the EL, see link:jsf-el.html#GJDDD[Chapter 9,
"Expression Language"].

For information on referencing managed bean methods from component tags,
see link:jsf-page-core004.html#BNATN[Referencing a Managed Bean Method].
