src/main/jbake/content/jsf-intro002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=What Is a Jakarta Faces Application?
next=jsf-intro003.html
prev=jsf-intro001.html
~~~~~~
What Is a Jakarta Faces Application?
=======================================

[[BNAPK]][[what-is-a-javaserver-faces-application]]

What Is a Jakarta Faces Application?
---------------------------------------

The functionality provided by a Jakarta Faces application is similar
to that of any other Java web application. A typical Jakarta Faces
application includes the following parts.

* A set of web pages in which components are laid out.
* A set of tags to add components to the web page.
* A set of managed beans, which are lightweight, container-managed
objects (POJOs). In a Jakarta Faces application, managed beans serve
as backing beans, which define properties and functions for UI
components on a page.
* A web deployment descriptor (`web.xml` file).
* Optionally, one or more application configuration resource files, such
as a `faces-config.xml` file, which can be used to define page
navigation rules and configure beans and other custom objects, such as
custom components.
* Optionally, a set of custom objects, which can include custom
components, validators, converters, or listeners, created by the
application developer.
* Optionally, a set of custom tags for representing custom objects on
the page.

link:#BNAPI[Figure 7-1] shows the interaction between client and server
in a typical Jakarta Faces application. In response to a client
request, a web page is rendered by the web container that implements
Jakarta Faces technology.

[[BNAPI]]

.*Figure 7-1 Responding to a Client Request for a Jakarta Faces Page*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_014.png[
"Diagram that shows a browser accessing the myfacelet.xhtml page using an
HTTP Request and the server sending the rendered HTML page using an HTTP
Response."]

The web page, `myfacelet.xhtml`, is built using Jakarta Faces
component tags. Component tags are used to add components to the `view`
(represented by `myView` in the diagram), which is the server-side
representation of the page. In addition to components, the web page can
also reference objects, such as the following:

* Any event listeners, validators, and converters that are registered on
the components
* The JavaBeans components that capture the data and process the
application-specific functionality of the components

On request from the client, the view is rendered as a response.
Rendering is the process whereby, based on the server-side view, the web
container generates output, such as HTML or XHTML, that can be read by
the client, such as a browser.

Commit message:

Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces
Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-intro002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=What Is a Jakarta Server Faces Application?
next=jsf-intro003.html
prev=jsf-intro001.html
~~~~~~
What Is a Jakarta Server Faces Application?
===========================================

[[BNAPK]][[what-is-a-javaserver-faces-application]]

What Is a Jakarta Server Faces Application?
-------------------------------------------

The functionality provided by a Jakarta Server Faces application is similar
to that of any other Java web application. A typical Jakarta Server Faces
application includes the following parts.

* A set of web pages in which components are laid out.
* A set of tags to add components to the web page.
* A set of managed beans, which are lightweight, container-managed
objects (POJOs). In a Jakarta Server Faces application, managed beans serve
as backing beans, which define properties and functions for UI
components on a page.
* A web deployment descriptor (`web.xml` file).
* Optionally, one or more application configuration resource files, such
as a `faces-config.xml` file, which can be used to define page
navigation rules and configure beans and other custom objects, such as
custom components.
* Optionally, a set of custom objects, which can include custom
components, validators, converters, or listeners, created by the
application developer.
* Optionally, a set of custom tags for representing custom objects on
the page.

link:#BNAPI[Figure 7-1] shows the interaction between client and server
in a typical Jakarta Server Faces application. In response to a client
request, a web page is rendered by the web container that implements
Jakarta Server Faces technology.

[[BNAPI]]

.*Figure 7-1 Responding to a Client Request for a Jakarta Server Faces Page*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_014.png[
"Diagram that shows a browser accessing the myfacelet.xhtml page using an
HTTP Request and the server sending the rendered HTML page using an HTTP
Response."]

The web page, `myfacelet.xhtml`, is built using Jakarta Server Faces
component tags. Component tags are used to add components to the `view`
(represented by `myView` in the diagram), which is the server-side
representation of the page. In addition to components, the web page can
also reference objects, such as the following:

* Any event listeners, validators, and converters that are registered on
the components
* The JavaBeans components that capture the data and process the
application-specific functionality of the components

On request from the client, the view is rendered as a response.
Rendering is the process whereby, based on the server-side view, the web
container generates output, such as HTML or XHTML, that can be read by
the client, such as a browser.
