src/main/jbake/content/jsf-el003.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Value and Method Expressions
next=jsf-el004.html
prev=jsf-el002.html
~~~~~~
= Value and Method Expressions


[[BNAHU]][[value-and-method-expressions]]

Value and Method Expressions
----------------------------

The EL defines two kinds of expressions: value expressions and method
expressions. Value expressions can be evaluated to yield a value, and
method expressions are used to reference a method.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#value-expressions[Value Expressions]
* link:#method-expressions[Method Expressions]
* link:#lambda-expressions[Lambda Expressions]

[[BNAHV]][[value-expressions]]

Value Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Value expressions can be further categorized into rvalue and lvalue
expressions. An lvalue expression can specify a target, such as an
object, a bean property, or elements of a collection, that can be
assigned a value. An rvalue expression cannot specify such a target.

All expressions that are evaluated immediately use the `${}` delimiters,
and although the expression can be an lvalue expression, no assignments
will ever happen. Expressions whose evaluation can be deferred use the
`#{}` delimiters and can act as both rvalue and lvalue expressions; if
the expression is an lvalue expression, it can be assigned a new value.
Consider the following two value expressions:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.name}

#{customer.name}
----

The former uses immediate evaluation syntax, whereas the latter uses
deferred evaluation syntax. The first expression accesses the `name`
property, gets its value, and passes the value to the tag handler. With
the second expression, the tag handler can defer the expression
evaluation to a later time in the page lifecycle if the technology using
this tag allows.

In the case of Jakarta Faces technology, the latter tag's expression
is evaluated immediately during an initial request for the page. During
a postback request, this expression can be used to set the value of the
`name` property with user input.

[[BNAHW]][[referencing-objects]]

Referencing Objects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A top-level identifier (such as `customer` in the expression
`customer.name`) can refer to the following objects:

* Lambda parameters
* EL variables
* Managed beans
* Implicit objects
* Classes of static fields and methods

To refer to these objects, you write an expression using a variable that
is the name of the object. The following expression references a managed
bean called `customer`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer}
----

You can use a custom EL resolver to alter the way variables are
resolved. For instance, you can provide an EL resolver that intercepts
objects with the name `customer`, so that `${customer}` returns a value
in the EL resolver instead. (Jakarta Faces technology uses an EL
resolver to handle managed beans.)

An `enum` constant is a special case of a static field, and you can
reference such a constant directly. For example, consider this `enum`
class:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public enum Suit {hearts, spades, diamonds, clubs}
----

In the following expression, in which `mySuit` is an instance of `Suit`,
you can compare `suit.hearts` to the instance:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${mySuit == suit.hearts}
----

[[BNAHX]][[referencing-object-properties-or-collection-elements]]

Referencing Object Properties or Collection Elements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To refer to properties of a bean, static fields or methods of a class,
or items of a collection, you use the `.` or `[]` notation. The same
syntax can be used for attributes of an implicit object, because
attributes are placed in a map.

To reference the `name` property of the `customer` bean, use either the
expression `${customer.name}` or the expression `${customer["name"]}`.
Here, the part inside the brackets is a `String` literal that is the
name of the property to reference. The `[]` syntax is more general than
the `.` syntax, because the part inside the brackets can be any `String`
expression, not just literals.

You can use double or single quotes for the `String` literal. You can
also combine the `[]` and `.` notations, as shown here:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.address["street"]}
----

You can reference a static field or method using the syntax
classname.field, as in the following example:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Boolean.FALSE
----

The classname is the name of the class without the package name. By
default, all the `java.lang` packages are imported. You can import other
packages, classes, and static fields as needed.

If you are accessing an item in an array or list, you must use the `[]`
notation and specify an index in the array or list. The index is an
expression that can be converted to `int`. The following example
references the first of the customer orders, assuming that
`customer.orders` is a `List`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.orders[1]}
----

If you are accessing an item in a `Map`, you must specify the key for
the `Map`. If the key is a `String` literal, the dot (`.)` notation can
be used. Assuming that `customer.orders` is a `Map` with a `String` key,
the following examples reference the item with the key `"socks"`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.orders["socks"]}

${customer.orders.socks}
----

[[sthref38]][[referencing-literals]]

Referencing Literals
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The EL defines the following literals:

* Boolean: `true` and `false`
* Integer: As in Java
* Floating-point: As in Java
* String: With single and double quotes; `"` is escaped as `\"`, `'` is
escaped as `\'`, and `\` is escaped as `\\`
* Null: `null`

Here are some examples:

* `${"literal"}`
* `${true}`
* `${57}`

[[GJHBZ]][[parameterized-method-calls]]

Parameterized Method Calls
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The EL offers support for parameterized method calls.

Both the `.` and `[]` operators can be used for invoking method calls
with parameters, as shown in the following expression syntax:

* expr-a`[`expr-b`](`parameters`)`
* expr-a`.`identifier-b`(`parameters`)`

In the first expression syntax, expr-a is evaluated to represent a bean
object. The expression expr-b is evaluated and cast to a string that
represents a method in the bean represented by expr-a. In the second
expression syntax, expr-a is evaluated to represent a bean object, and
identifier-b is a string that represents a method in the bean object.
The parameters in parentheses are the arguments for the method
invocation. Parameters can be zero or more values of expressions,
separated by commas.

Parameters are supported for both value expressions and method
expressions. In the following example, which is a modified tag from the
`guessnumber` application, a random number is provided as an argument
rather than from user input to the method call:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText value="#{userNumberBean.userNumber('5')}">
----

The preceding example uses a value expression.

Consider the following example of a Jakarta Faces component tag that
uses a method expression:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:commandButton action="#{trader.buy}" value="buy"/>
----

The EL expression `trader.buy` calls the `trader` bean's `buy` method.
You can modify the tag to pass on a parameter. Here is the revised tag
in which a parameter is passed:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:commandButton action="#{trader.buy('SOMESTOCK')}" value="buy"/>
----

In the preceding example, you are passing the string `'SOMESTOCK'` (a
stock symbol) as a parameter to the `buy` method.

[[BNAHY]][[where-value-expressions-can-be-used]]

Where Value Expressions Can Be Used
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Value expressions using the `${}` delimiters can be used

* In static text
* In any standard or custom tag attribute that can accept an expression

The value of an expression in static text is computed and inserted into
the current output. Here is an example of an expression embedded in
static text:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag>
    some text ${expr} some text
</some:tag>
----

A tag attribute can be set in the following ways.

* With a single expression construct:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="${expr}"/>

<another:tag value="#{expr}"/>
----
+
These expressions are evaluated, and the result is converted to the
attribute's expected type.
* With one or more expressions separated or surrounded by text:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="some${expr}${expr}text${expr}"/>

<another:tag value="some#{expr}#{expr}text#{expr}"/>
----
+
These kinds of expression, called composite expressions, are evaluated
from left to right. Each expression embedded in the composite expression
is converted to a `String` and then concatenated with any intervening
text. The resulting `String` is then converted to the attribute's
expected type.
* With text only:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="sometext"/>
----
+
The attribute's `String` value is converted to the attribute's expected
type.

You can use the string concatenation operator += to create a single
expression from what would otherwise be a composite expression. For
example, you could change the composite expression

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="sometext ${expr} moretext"/>
----

to

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="${sometext += expr += moretext}"/>
----

All expressions used to set attribute values are evaluated in the
context of an expected type. If the result of the expression evaluation
does not match the expected type exactly, a type conversion will be
performed. For example, the expression `${1.2E4}` provided as the value
of an attribute of type `float` will result in the following conversion:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Float.valueOf("1.2E4").floatValue()
----

[[BNAHZ]][[method-expressions]]

Method Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another feature of the EL is its support of deferred method expressions.
A method expression is used to refer to a public method of a bean and
has the same syntax as an lvalue expression.

In Jakarta Faces technology, a component tag represents a component
on a page. The component tag uses method expressions to specify methods
that can be invoked to perform some processing for the component. These
methods are necessary for handling events that the components generate
and for validating component data, as shown in this example:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:form>
    <h:inputText id="name"
                 value="#{customer.name}"
                 validator="#{customer.validateName}"/>
    <h:commandButton id="submit"
                     action="#{customer.submit}" />
</h:form>
----

The `h:inputText` tag displays as a field. The `validator` attribute of
this `h:inputText` tag references a method, called `validateName`, in
the bean, called `customer`.

Because a method can be invoked during different phases of the
lifecycle, method expressions must always use the deferred evaluation
syntax.

Like lvalue expressions, method expressions can use the `.` and the `[]`
operators. For example, `#{object.method}` is equivalent to
#`{object["method"]}`. The literal inside the `[]` is converted to
`String` and is used to find the name of the method that matches it.

Method expressions can be used only in tag attributes and only in the
following ways:

* With a single expression construct, where bean refers to a JavaBeans
component and method refers to a method of the JavaBeans component:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="#{bean.method}"/>
----
+
The expression is evaluated to a method expression, which is passed to
the tag handler. The method represented by the method expression can
then be invoked later.
* With text only:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="sometext"/>
----
+
Method expressions support literals primarily to support `action`
attributes in Jakarta Faces technology. When the method referenced by
this method expression is invoked, the method returns the `String`
literal, which is then converted to the expected return type, as defined
in the tag's tag library descriptor.

[[BEIHCBAH]][[lambda-expressions]]

Lambda Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A lambda expression is a value expression with parameters. The syntax is
similar to that of the lambda expression in the Java programming
language, except that in the EL, the body of the lambda expression is an
EL expression.

For basic information on lambda expressions, see
`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/lambdaexpressions.html`.


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Note*:

Lambda expressions are part of Java SE 8, but you can use them in EL
expressions with Java SE 7, the Java version associated with the Jakarta EE
7 platform.

|=======================================================================


A lambda expression uses the arrow token (`->)` operator. The
identifiers to the left of the operator are called lambda parameters.
The body, to the right of the operator, must be an EL expression. The
lambda parameters are enclosed in parentheses; the parentheses can be
omitted if there is only one parameter. Here are some examples:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
x -> x+1
(x, y) -> x + y
() -> 64
----

A lambda expression behaves like a function. It can be invoked
immediately. For example, the following invocation evaluates to 7:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
((x, y) -> x + y)(3, 4)
----

You can use a lambda expression in conjunction with the assignment and
semicolon operators. For example, the following code assigns the
previous lambda expression to a variable and then invokes it. The result
is again 7:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
v = (x, y) -> x + y; v(3, 4)
----

A lambda expression can also be passed as an argument to a method and be
invoked in the method. It can also be nested in another lambda
expression.

Commit message:

Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces
Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-el003.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Value and Method Expressions
next=jsf-el004.html
prev=jsf-el002.html
~~~~~~
= Value and Method Expressions


[[BNAHU]][[value-and-method-expressions]]

Value and Method Expressions
----------------------------

The EL defines two kinds of expressions: value expressions and method
expressions. Value expressions can be evaluated to yield a value, and
method expressions are used to reference a method.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#value-expressions[Value Expressions]
* link:#method-expressions[Method Expressions]
* link:#lambda-expressions[Lambda Expressions]

[[BNAHV]][[value-expressions]]

Value Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Value expressions can be further categorized into rvalue and lvalue
expressions. An lvalue expression can specify a target, such as an
object, a bean property, or elements of a collection, that can be
assigned a value. An rvalue expression cannot specify such a target.

All expressions that are evaluated immediately use the `${}` delimiters,
and although the expression can be an lvalue expression, no assignments
will ever happen. Expressions whose evaluation can be deferred use the
`#{}` delimiters and can act as both rvalue and lvalue expressions; if
the expression is an lvalue expression, it can be assigned a new value.
Consider the following two value expressions:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.name}

#{customer.name}
----

The former uses immediate evaluation syntax, whereas the latter uses
deferred evaluation syntax. The first expression accesses the `name`
property, gets its value, and passes the value to the tag handler. With
the second expression, the tag handler can defer the expression
evaluation to a later time in the page lifecycle if the technology using
this tag allows.

In the case of Jakarta Server Faces technology, the latter tag's expression
is evaluated immediately during an initial request for the page. During
a postback request, this expression can be used to set the value of the
`name` property with user input.

[[BNAHW]][[referencing-objects]]

Referencing Objects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A top-level identifier (such as `customer` in the expression
`customer.name`) can refer to the following objects:

* Lambda parameters
* EL variables
* Managed beans
* Implicit objects
* Classes of static fields and methods

To refer to these objects, you write an expression using a variable that
is the name of the object. The following expression references a managed
bean called `customer`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer}
----

You can use a custom EL resolver to alter the way variables are
resolved. For instance, you can provide an EL resolver that intercepts
objects with the name `customer`, so that `${customer}` returns a value
in the EL resolver instead. (Jakarta Server Faces technology uses an EL
resolver to handle managed beans.)

An `enum` constant is a special case of a static field, and you can
reference such a constant directly. For example, consider this `enum`
class:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
public enum Suit {hearts, spades, diamonds, clubs}
----

In the following expression, in which `mySuit` is an instance of `Suit`,
you can compare `suit.hearts` to the instance:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${mySuit == suit.hearts}
----

[[BNAHX]][[referencing-object-properties-or-collection-elements]]

Referencing Object Properties or Collection Elements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To refer to properties of a bean, static fields or methods of a class,
or items of a collection, you use the `.` or `[]` notation. The same
syntax can be used for attributes of an implicit object, because
attributes are placed in a map.

To reference the `name` property of the `customer` bean, use either the
expression `${customer.name}` or the expression `${customer["name"]}`.
Here, the part inside the brackets is a `String` literal that is the
name of the property to reference. The `[]` syntax is more general than
the `.` syntax, because the part inside the brackets can be any `String`
expression, not just literals.

You can use double or single quotes for the `String` literal. You can
also combine the `[]` and `.` notations, as shown here:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.address["street"]}
----

You can reference a static field or method using the syntax
classname.field, as in the following example:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Boolean.FALSE
----

The classname is the name of the class without the package name. By
default, all the `java.lang` packages are imported. You can import other
packages, classes, and static fields as needed.

If you are accessing an item in an array or list, you must use the `[]`
notation and specify an index in the array or list. The index is an
expression that can be converted to `int`. The following example
references the first of the customer orders, assuming that
`customer.orders` is a `List`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.orders[1]}
----

If you are accessing an item in a `Map`, you must specify the key for
the `Map`. If the key is a `String` literal, the dot (`.)` notation can
be used. Assuming that `customer.orders` is a `Map` with a `String` key,
the following examples reference the item with the key `"socks"`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
${customer.orders["socks"]}

${customer.orders.socks}
----

[[sthref38]][[referencing-literals]]

Referencing Literals
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The EL defines the following literals:

* Boolean: `true` and `false`
* Integer: As in Java
* Floating-point: As in Java
* String: With single and double quotes; `"` is escaped as `\"`, `'` is
escaped as `\'`, and `\` is escaped as `\\`
* Null: `null`

Here are some examples:

* `${"literal"}`
* `${true}`
* `${57}`

[[GJHBZ]][[parameterized-method-calls]]

Parameterized Method Calls
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The EL offers support for parameterized method calls.

Both the `.` and `[]` operators can be used for invoking method calls
with parameters, as shown in the following expression syntax:

* expr-a`[`expr-b`](`parameters`)`
* expr-a`.`identifier-b`(`parameters`)`

In the first expression syntax, expr-a is evaluated to represent a bean
object. The expression expr-b is evaluated and cast to a string that
represents a method in the bean represented by expr-a. In the second
expression syntax, expr-a is evaluated to represent a bean object, and
identifier-b is a string that represents a method in the bean object.
The parameters in parentheses are the arguments for the method
invocation. Parameters can be zero or more values of expressions,
separated by commas.

Parameters are supported for both value expressions and method
expressions. In the following example, which is a modified tag from the
`guessnumber` application, a random number is provided as an argument
rather than from user input to the method call:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText value="#{userNumberBean.userNumber('5')}">
----

The preceding example uses a value expression.

Consider the following example of a Jakarta Server Faces component tag that
uses a method expression:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:commandButton action="#{trader.buy}" value="buy"/>
----

The EL expression `trader.buy` calls the `trader` bean's `buy` method.
You can modify the tag to pass on a parameter. Here is the revised tag
in which a parameter is passed:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:commandButton action="#{trader.buy('SOMESTOCK')}" value="buy"/>
----

In the preceding example, you are passing the string `'SOMESTOCK'` (a
stock symbol) as a parameter to the `buy` method.

[[BNAHY]][[where-value-expressions-can-be-used]]

Where Value Expressions Can Be Used
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Value expressions using the `${}` delimiters can be used

* In static text
* In any standard or custom tag attribute that can accept an expression

The value of an expression in static text is computed and inserted into
the current output. Here is an example of an expression embedded in
static text:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag>
    some text ${expr} some text
</some:tag>
----

A tag attribute can be set in the following ways.

* With a single expression construct:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="${expr}"/>

<another:tag value="#{expr}"/>
----
+
These expressions are evaluated, and the result is converted to the
attribute's expected type.
* With one or more expressions separated or surrounded by text:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="some${expr}${expr}text${expr}"/>

<another:tag value="some#{expr}#{expr}text#{expr}"/>
----
+
These kinds of expression, called composite expressions, are evaluated
from left to right. Each expression embedded in the composite expression
is converted to a `String` and then concatenated with any intervening
text. The resulting `String` is then converted to the attribute's
expected type.
* With text only:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="sometext"/>
----
+
The attribute's `String` value is converted to the attribute's expected
type.

You can use the string concatenation operator += to create a single
expression from what would otherwise be a composite expression. For
example, you could change the composite expression

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="sometext ${expr} moretext"/>
----

to

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="${sometext += expr += moretext}"/>
----

All expressions used to set attribute values are evaluated in the
context of an expected type. If the result of the expression evaluation
does not match the expected type exactly, a type conversion will be
performed. For example, the expression `${1.2E4}` provided as the value
of an attribute of type `float` will result in the following conversion:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
Float.valueOf("1.2E4").floatValue()
----

[[BNAHZ]][[method-expressions]]

Method Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another feature of the EL is its support of deferred method expressions.
A method expression is used to refer to a public method of a bean and
has the same syntax as an lvalue expression.

In Jakarta Server Faces technology, a component tag represents a component
on a page. The component tag uses method expressions to specify methods
that can be invoked to perform some processing for the component. These
methods are necessary for handling events that the components generate
and for validating component data, as shown in this example:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:form>
    <h:inputText id="name"
                 value="#{customer.name}"
                 validator="#{customer.validateName}"/>
    <h:commandButton id="submit"
                     action="#{customer.submit}" />
</h:form>
----

The `h:inputText` tag displays as a field. The `validator` attribute of
this `h:inputText` tag references a method, called `validateName`, in
the bean, called `customer`.

Because a method can be invoked during different phases of the
lifecycle, method expressions must always use the deferred evaluation
syntax.

Like lvalue expressions, method expressions can use the `.` and the `[]`
operators. For example, `#{object.method}` is equivalent to
#`{object["method"]}`. The literal inside the `[]` is converted to
`String` and is used to find the name of the method that matches it.

Method expressions can be used only in tag attributes and only in the
following ways:

* With a single expression construct, where bean refers to a JavaBeans
component and method refers to a method of the JavaBeans component:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="#{bean.method}"/>
----
+
The expression is evaluated to a method expression, which is passed to
the tag handler. The method represented by the method expression can
then be invoked later.
* With text only:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<some:tag value="sometext"/>
----
+
Method expressions support literals primarily to support `action`
attributes in Jakarta Server Faces technology. When the method referenced by
this method expression is invoked, the method returns the `String`
literal, which is then converted to the expected return type, as defined
in the tag's tag library descriptor.

[[BEIHCBAH]][[lambda-expressions]]

Lambda Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A lambda expression is a value expression with parameters. The syntax is
similar to that of the lambda expression in the Java programming
language, except that in the EL, the body of the lambda expression is an
EL expression.

For basic information on lambda expressions, see
`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/lambdaexpressions.html`.


[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Note*:

Lambda expressions are part of Java SE 8, but you can use them in EL
expressions with Java SE 7, the Java version associated with the Jakarta EE
7 platform.

|=======================================================================


A lambda expression uses the arrow token (`->)` operator. The
identifiers to the left of the operator are called lambda parameters.
The body, to the right of the operator, must be an EL expression. The
lambda parameters are enclosed in parentheses; the parentheses can be
omitted if there is only one parameter. Here are some examples:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
x -> x+1
(x, y) -> x + y
() -> 64
----

A lambda expression behaves like a function. It can be invoked
immediately. For example, the following invocation evaluates to 7:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
((x, y) -> x + y)(3, 4)
----

You can use a lambda expression in conjunction with the assignment and
semicolon operators. For example, the following code assigns the
previous lambda expression to a variable and then invokes it. The result
is again 7:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
v = (x, y) -> x + y; v(3, 4)
----

A lambda expression can also be passed as an argument to a method and be
invoked in the method. It can also be nested in another lambda
expression.
