src/main/jbake/content/jsf-configure001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction to Configuring JavaServer Faces Applications
next=jsf-configure002.html
prev=jsf-configure.html
~~~~~~
Introduction to Configuring JavaServer Faces Applications
=========================================================

[[A1352824]][[introduction-to-configuring-javaserver-faces-applications]]

Introduction to Configuring JavaServer Faces Applications
---------------------------------------------------------

The process of building and deploying simple JavaServer Faces
applications is described in earlier chapters of this tutorial,
including link:webapp.html#BNADR[Chapter 6, "Getting Started with Web
Applications,"] link:jsf-facelets.html#GIEPX[Chapter 8, "Introduction to
Facelets,"] link:jsf-ajax.html#GKIOW[Chapter 13, "Using Ajax with
JavaServer Faces Technology,"] and
link:jsf-advanced-cc.html#GKHXA[Chapter 14, "Composite Components:
Advanced Topics and an Example."] When you create large and complex
applications, however, various additional configuration tasks are
required. These tasks include the following:

* Registering managed beans with the application so that all parts of
the application have access to them
* Configuring managed beans and model beans so that they are
instantiated with the proper values when a page makes reference to them
* Defining navigation rules for each of the pages in the application so
that the application has a smooth page flow, if nondefault navigation is
needed
* Packaging the application to include all the pages, resources, and
other files so that the application can be deployed on any compliant
container

Commit message:

First pass at JSF (#157)
* First pass at JSF

Renamed Jakarta Faces

* Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces

Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-configure001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Introduction to Configuring Jakarta Server Faces Applications
next=jsf-configure002.html
prev=jsf-configure.html
~~~~~~
Introduction to Configuring Jakarta Server Faces Applications
=============================================================

[[A1352824]][[introduction-to-configuring-javaserver-faces-applications]]

Introduction to Configuring Jakarta Server Faces Applications
-------------------------------------------------------------

The process of building and deploying simple Jakarta Server Faces
applications is described in earlier chapters of this tutorial,
including link:webapp.html#BNADR[Chapter 6, "Getting Started with Web
Applications,"] link:jsf-facelets.html#GIEPX[Chapter 8, "Introduction to
Facelets,"] link:jsf-ajax.html#GKIOW[Chapter 13, "Using Ajax with
Jakarta Server Faces Technology,"] and
link:jsf-advanced-cc.html#GKHXA[Chapter 14, "Composite Components:
Advanced Topics and an Example."] When you create large and complex
applications, however, various additional configuration tasks are
required. These tasks include the following:

* Registering managed beans with the application so that all parts of
the application have access to them
* Configuring managed beans and model beans so that they are
instantiated with the proper values when a page makes reference to them
* Defining navigation rules for each of the pages in the application so
that the application has a smooth page flow, if nondefault navigation is
needed
* Packaging the application to include all the pages, resources, and
other files so that the application can be deployed on any compliant
container
