src/main/jbake/content/jsf-custom011.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Creating and Using a Custom Converter
next=jsf-custom012.html
prev=jsf-custom010.html
~~~~~~
Creating and Using a Custom Converter
=====================================

[[BNAUS]][[creating-and-using-a-custom-converter]]

Creating and Using a Custom Converter
-------------------------------------

A Jakarta Faces converter class converts strings to objects and
objects to strings as required. Several standard converters are provided
by Jakarta Faces for this purpose. See
link:jsf-page-core001.html#BNAST[Using the Standard Converters] for more
information on these included converters.

As explained in link:jsf-intro005.html#BNAQI[Conversion Model], if the
standard converters included with Jakarta Faces cannot perform the
data conversion that you need, you can create a custom converter to
perform this specialized conversion. This implementation, at a minimum,
must define how to convert data both ways between the two views of the
data described in link:jsf-intro005.html#BNAQI[Conversion Model].

All custom converters must implement the `javax.faces.convert.Converter`
interface. This section explains how to implement this interface to
perform a custom data conversion.

The Duke's Bookstore case study uses a custom `Converter`
implementation, located in
tut-install`/examples/case-studies/dukes-bookstore/src/java/dukesbookstore/converters/CreditCardConverter.java`,
to convert the data entered in the Credit Card Number field on the
`bookcashier.xhtml` page. It strips blanks and hyphens from the text
string and formats it so that a blank space separates every four
characters.

Another common use case for a custom converter is in a list for a
nonstandard object type. In the Duke's Tutoring case study, the
`Student` and `Guardian` entities require a custom converter so that
they can be converted to and from a `UISelectItems` input component.

[[GLPHB]][[creating-a-custom-converter]]

Creating a Custom Converter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `CreditCardConverter` custom converter class is created as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FacesConverter("ccno")
public class CreditCardConverter implements Converter {
    ...
}
----

The `@FacesConverter` annotation registers the custom converter class as
a converter with the name of `ccno` with the Jakarta Faces
implementation. Alternatively, you can register the converter with
entries in the application configuration resource file, as shown in
link:jsf-configure009.html#BNAXE[Registering a Custom Converter].

To define how the data is converted from the presentation view to the
model view, the `Converter` implementation must implement the
`getAsObject(FacesContext, UIComponent, String)` method from the
`Converter` interface. Here is the implementation of this method from
`CreditCardConverter`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Override
public Object getAsObject(FacesContext context,
        UIComponent component, String newValue)
        throws ConverterException {

    if (newValue.isEmpty()) {
        return null;
    }
    // Since this is only a String to String conversion,
    // this conversion does not throw ConverterException.
    
    String convertedValue = newValue.trim();
    if ( (convertedValue.contains("-")) || (convertedValue.contains(" "))) {
        char[] input = convertedValue.toCharArray();
        StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder(input.length);
        for (int i = 0; i < input.length; ++i) {
            if ((input[i] == '-') || (input[i] == ' ')) {
            } else {
                builder.append(input[i]);
            }
        }
        convertedValue = builder.toString();
    }
    return convertedValue;
}
----

During the Apply Request Values phase, when the components' `decode`
methods are processed, the Jakarta Faces implementation looks up the
component's local value in the request and calls the `getAsObject`
method. When calling this method, the Jakarta Faces implementation
passes in the current `FacesContext` instance, the component whose data
needs conversion, and the local value as a `String`. The method then
writes the local value to a character array, trims the hyphens and
blanks, adds the rest of the characters to a `String`, and returns the
`String`.

To define how the data is converted from the model view to the
presentation view, the `Converter` implementation must implement the
`getAsString(FacesContext, UIComponent, Object)` method from the
`Converter` interface. Here is an implementation of this method:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Override
public String getAsString(FacesContext context,
        UIComponent component, Object value)
        throws ConverterException {
    
    String inputVal = null;
    if ( value == null ) {
        return "";
    }
    // value must be of a type that can be cast to a String.
    try {
        inputVal = (String)value;
    } catch (ClassCastException ce) {
        FacesMessage errMsg = new FacesMessage(CONVERSION_ERROR_MESSAGE_ID);
        FacesContext.getCurrentInstance().addMessage(null, errMsg);
        throw new ConverterException(errMsg.getSummary());
    }
    // insert spaces after every four characters for better
    // readability if they are not already present.
    char[] input = inputVal.toCharArray();
    StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder(input.length + 3);
    for (int i = 0; i < input.length; ++i) {
        if ((i % 4) == 0 && (i != 0)) {
            if ({input[i] != ' ') || (input[i] != '-')){
                builder.append(" ");
                // if there are any "-"'s convert them to blanks.
            } else if (input[i] == '-') {
                builder.append(" ");
            }
         }
         builder.append(input[i]);
    }
    String convertedValue = builder.toString();
    return convertedValue;
}
----

During the Render Response phase, in which the components' `encode`
methods are called, the Jakarta Faces implementation calls the
`getAsString` method in order to generate the appropriate output. When
the Jakarta Faces implementation calls this method, it passes in the
current `FacesContext`, the `UIComponent` whose value needs to be
converted, and the bean value to be converted. Because this converter
does a `String`-to-`String` conversion, this method can cast the bean
value to a `String`.

If the value cannot be converted to a `String`, the method throws an
exception, passing an error message from the resource bundle that is
registered with the application.
link:jsf-configure006.html#BNAXB[Registering Application Messages]
explains how to register custom error messages with the application.

If the value can be converted to a `String`, the method reads the
`String` to a character array and loops through the array, adding a
space after every four characters.

You can also create a custom converter with a `@FacesConverter`
annotation that specifies the `forClass` attribute, as shown in the
following example from the Duke's Tutoring case study:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FacesConverter(forClass=Guardian.class, value="guardian")
public class GuardianConverter extends EntityConverter implements Converter { ...
----

The `forClass` attribute registers the converter as the default
converter for the `Guardian` class. Therefore, whenever that class is
specified by a `value` attribute of an input component, the converter is
invoked automatically.

A converter class can be a separate Java POJO class, as in the Duke's
Bookstore case study. If it needs to access objects defined in a managed
bean class, however, it can be a subclass of a Jakarta Faces managed
bean, as in the `address-book` persistence example, in which the
converters use an enterprise bean that is injected into the managed bean
class.

[[BNATU]][[using-a-custom-converter]]

Using a Custom Converter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To apply the data conversion performed by a custom converter to a
particular component's value, you must do one of the following.

* Reference the converter from the component tag's `converter`
attribute.
* Nest an `f:converter` tag inside the component's tag and reference the
custom converter from one of the `f:converter` tag's attributes.

If you are using the component tag's `converter` attribute, this
attribute must reference the `Converter` implementation's identifier or
the fully-qualified class name of the converter. link:#BNAUS[Creating
and Using a Custom Converter] explains how to implement a custom
converter.

The identifier for the credit card converter class is `ccno`, the value
specified in the `@FacesConverter` annotation:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FacesConverter("ccno")
public class CreditCardConverter implements Converter {
    ...
----

Therefore, the `CreditCardConverter` instance can be registered on the
`ccno` component as shown in the following example:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText id="ccno"
             size="19"
             converter="ccno"
             value="#{cashierBean.creditCardNumber}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCreditCard}">
    ...
</h:inputText>
----

By setting the `converter` attribute of a component's tag to the
converter's identifier or its class name, you cause that component's
local value to be automatically converted according to the rules
specified in the `Converter` implementation.

Instead of referencing the converter from the component tag's
`converter` attribute, you can reference the converter from an
`f:converter` tag nested inside the component's tag. To reference the
custom converter using the `f:converter` tag, you do one of the
following.

* Set the `f:converter` tag's `converterId` attribute to the `Converter`
implementation's identifier defined in the `@FacesConverter` annotation
or in the application configuration resource file. This method is shown
in `bookcashier.xhtml`:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText id="ccno" 
             size="19"
             value="#{cashierBean.creditCardNumber}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCreditCard}">
    <f:converter converterId="ccno"/>
    <f:validateRegex 
       pattern="\d{16}|\d{4} \d{4} \d{4} \d{4}|\d{4}-\d{4}-\d{4}-\d{4}"/>
</h:inputText>
----
* Bind the `Converter` implementation to a managed bean property using
the `f:converter` tag's `binding` attribute, as described in
link:jsf-custom014.html#BNATM[Binding Converters, Listeners, and
Validators to Managed Bean Properties].

The Jakarta Faces implementation calls the converter's `getAsObject`
method to strip spaces and hyphens from the input value. The
`getAsString` method is called when the `bookcashier.xhtml` page is
redisplayed; this happens if the user orders more than $100 worth of
books.

In the Duke's Tutoring case study, each converter is registered as the
converter for a particular class. The converter is automatically invoked
whenever that class is specified by a `value` attribute of an input
component. In the following example, the `itemValue` attribute
(highlighted in bold) calls the converter for the `Guardian` class:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:selectManyListbox id="selectGuardiansMenu"
                     title="#{bundle['action.add.guardian']}"
                     value="#{guardianManager.selectedGuardians}"
                     size="5"
                     converter="guardian">
    <f:selectItems value="#{guardianManager.allGuardians}"
                   var="selectedGuardian"
                   itemLabel="#{selectedGuardian.name}"
                   itemValue="#{selectedGuardian}" />
</h:selectManyListbox>
----

Commit message:

Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces
Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-custom011.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Creating and Using a Custom Converter
next=jsf-custom012.html
prev=jsf-custom010.html
~~~~~~
Creating and Using a Custom Converter
=====================================

[[BNAUS]][[creating-and-using-a-custom-converter]]

Creating and Using a Custom Converter
-------------------------------------

A Jakarta Server Faces converter class converts strings to objects and
objects to strings as required. Several standard converters are provided
by Jakarta Server Faces for this purpose. See
link:jsf-page-core001.html#BNAST[Using the Standard Converters] for more
information on these included converters.

As explained in link:jsf-intro005.html#BNAQI[Conversion Model], if the
standard converters included with Jakarta Server Faces cannot perform the
data conversion that you need, you can create a custom converter to
perform this specialized conversion. This implementation, at a minimum,
must define how to convert data both ways between the two views of the
data described in link:jsf-intro005.html#BNAQI[Conversion Model].

All custom converters must implement the `javax.faces.convert.Converter`
interface. This section explains how to implement this interface to
perform a custom data conversion.

The Duke's Bookstore case study uses a custom `Converter`
implementation, located in
tut-install`/examples/case-studies/dukes-bookstore/src/java/dukesbookstore/converters/CreditCardConverter.java`,
to convert the data entered in the Credit Card Number field on the
`bookcashier.xhtml` page. It strips blanks and hyphens from the text
string and formats it so that a blank space separates every four
characters.

Another common use case for a custom converter is in a list for a
nonstandard object type. In the Duke's Tutoring case study, the
`Student` and `Guardian` entities require a custom converter so that
they can be converted to and from a `UISelectItems` input component.

[[GLPHB]][[creating-a-custom-converter]]

Creating a Custom Converter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `CreditCardConverter` custom converter class is created as follows:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FacesConverter("ccno")
public class CreditCardConverter implements Converter {
    ...
}
----

The `@FacesConverter` annotation registers the custom converter class as
a converter with the name of `ccno` with the Jakarta Server Faces
implementation. Alternatively, you can register the converter with
entries in the application configuration resource file, as shown in
link:jsf-configure009.html#BNAXE[Registering a Custom Converter].

To define how the data is converted from the presentation view to the
model view, the `Converter` implementation must implement the
`getAsObject(FacesContext, UIComponent, String)` method from the
`Converter` interface. Here is the implementation of this method from
`CreditCardConverter`:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Override
public Object getAsObject(FacesContext context,
        UIComponent component, String newValue)
        throws ConverterException {

    if (newValue.isEmpty()) {
        return null;
    }
    // Since this is only a String to String conversion,
    // this conversion does not throw ConverterException.
    
    String convertedValue = newValue.trim();
    if ( (convertedValue.contains("-")) || (convertedValue.contains(" "))) {
        char[] input = convertedValue.toCharArray();
        StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder(input.length);
        for (int i = 0; i < input.length; ++i) {
            if ((input[i] == '-') || (input[i] == ' ')) {
            } else {
                builder.append(input[i]);
            }
        }
        convertedValue = builder.toString();
    }
    return convertedValue;
}
----

During the Apply Request Values phase, when the components' `decode`
methods are processed, the Jakarta Server Faces implementation looks up the
component's local value in the request and calls the `getAsObject`
method. When calling this method, the Jakarta Server Faces implementation
passes in the current `FacesContext` instance, the component whose data
needs conversion, and the local value as a `String`. The method then
writes the local value to a character array, trims the hyphens and
blanks, adds the rest of the characters to a `String`, and returns the
`String`.

To define how the data is converted from the model view to the
presentation view, the `Converter` implementation must implement the
`getAsString(FacesContext, UIComponent, Object)` method from the
`Converter` interface. Here is an implementation of this method:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@Override
public String getAsString(FacesContext context,
        UIComponent component, Object value)
        throws ConverterException {
    
    String inputVal = null;
    if ( value == null ) {
        return "";
    }
    // value must be of a type that can be cast to a String.
    try {
        inputVal = (String)value;
    } catch (ClassCastException ce) {
        FacesMessage errMsg = new FacesMessage(CONVERSION_ERROR_MESSAGE_ID);
        FacesContext.getCurrentInstance().addMessage(null, errMsg);
        throw new ConverterException(errMsg.getSummary());
    }
    // insert spaces after every four characters for better
    // readability if they are not already present.
    char[] input = inputVal.toCharArray();
    StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder(input.length + 3);
    for (int i = 0; i < input.length; ++i) {
        if ((i % 4) == 0 && (i != 0)) {
            if ({input[i] != ' ') || (input[i] != '-')){
                builder.append(" ");
                // if there are any "-"'s convert them to blanks.
            } else if (input[i] == '-') {
                builder.append(" ");
            }
         }
         builder.append(input[i]);
    }
    String convertedValue = builder.toString();
    return convertedValue;
}
----

During the Render Response phase, in which the components' `encode`
methods are called, the Jakarta Server Faces implementation calls the
`getAsString` method in order to generate the appropriate output. When
the Jakarta Server Faces implementation calls this method, it passes in the
current `FacesContext`, the `UIComponent` whose value needs to be
converted, and the bean value to be converted. Because this converter
does a `String`-to-`String` conversion, this method can cast the bean
value to a `String`.

If the value cannot be converted to a `String`, the method throws an
exception, passing an error message from the resource bundle that is
registered with the application.
link:jsf-configure006.html#BNAXB[Registering Application Messages]
explains how to register custom error messages with the application.

If the value can be converted to a `String`, the method reads the
`String` to a character array and loops through the array, adding a
space after every four characters.

You can also create a custom converter with a `@FacesConverter`
annotation that specifies the `forClass` attribute, as shown in the
following example from the Duke's Tutoring case study:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FacesConverter(forClass=Guardian.class, value="guardian")
public class GuardianConverter extends EntityConverter implements Converter { ...
----

The `forClass` attribute registers the converter as the default
converter for the `Guardian` class. Therefore, whenever that class is
specified by a `value` attribute of an input component, the converter is
invoked automatically.

A converter class can be a separate Java POJO class, as in the Duke's
Bookstore case study. If it needs to access objects defined in a managed
bean class, however, it can be a subclass of a Jakarta Server Faces managed
bean, as in the `address-book` persistence example, in which the
converters use an enterprise bean that is injected into the managed bean
class.

[[BNATU]][[using-a-custom-converter]]

Using a Custom Converter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To apply the data conversion performed by a custom converter to a
particular component's value, you must do one of the following.

* Reference the converter from the component tag's `converter`
attribute.
* Nest an `f:converter` tag inside the component's tag and reference the
custom converter from one of the `f:converter` tag's attributes.

If you are using the component tag's `converter` attribute, this
attribute must reference the `Converter` implementation's identifier or
the fully-qualified class name of the converter. link:#BNAUS[Creating
and Using a Custom Converter] explains how to implement a custom
converter.

The identifier for the credit card converter class is `ccno`, the value
specified in the `@FacesConverter` annotation:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
@FacesConverter("ccno")
public class CreditCardConverter implements Converter {
    ...
----

Therefore, the `CreditCardConverter` instance can be registered on the
`ccno` component as shown in the following example:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText id="ccno"
             size="19"
             converter="ccno"
             value="#{cashierBean.creditCardNumber}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCreditCard}">
    ...
</h:inputText>
----

By setting the `converter` attribute of a component's tag to the
converter's identifier or its class name, you cause that component's
local value to be automatically converted according to the rules
specified in the `Converter` implementation.

Instead of referencing the converter from the component tag's
`converter` attribute, you can reference the converter from an
`f:converter` tag nested inside the component's tag. To reference the
custom converter using the `f:converter` tag, you do one of the
following.

* Set the `f:converter` tag's `converterId` attribute to the `Converter`
implementation's identifier defined in the `@FacesConverter` annotation
or in the application configuration resource file. This method is shown
in `bookcashier.xhtml`:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:inputText id="ccno" 
             size="19"
             value="#{cashierBean.creditCardNumber}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCreditCard}">
    <f:converter converterId="ccno"/>
    <f:validateRegex 
       pattern="\d{16}|\d{4} \d{4} \d{4} \d{4}|\d{4}-\d{4}-\d{4}-\d{4}"/>
</h:inputText>
----
* Bind the `Converter` implementation to a managed bean property using
the `f:converter` tag's `binding` attribute, as described in
link:jsf-custom014.html#BNATM[Binding Converters, Listeners, and
Validators to Managed Bean Properties].

The Jakarta Server Faces implementation calls the converter's `getAsObject`
method to strip spaces and hyphens from the input value. The
`getAsString` method is called when the `bookcashier.xhtml` page is
redisplayed; this happens if the user orders more than $100 worth of
books.

In the Duke's Tutoring case study, each converter is registered as the
converter for a particular class. The converter is automatically invoked
whenever that class is specified by a `value` attribute of an input
component. In the following example, the `itemValue` attribute
(highlighted in bold) calls the converter for the `Guardian` class:

[source,oac_no_warn]
----
<h:selectManyListbox id="selectGuardiansMenu"
                     title="#{bundle['action.add.guardian']}"
                     value="#{guardianManager.selectedGuardians}"
                     size="5"
                     converter="guardian">
    <f:selectItems value="#{guardianManager.allGuardians}"
                   var="selectedGuardian"
                   itemLabel="#{selectedGuardian.name}"
                   itemValue="#{selectedGuardian}" />
</h:selectManyListbox>
----
