src/main/jbake/content/jsf-facelets002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=The Lifecycle of a Facelets Application
next=jsf-facelets003.html
prev=jsf-facelets001.html
~~~~~~
The Lifecycle of a Facelets Application
=======================================

[[GIPRR]][[the-lifecycle-of-a-facelets-application]]

The Lifecycle of a Facelets Application
---------------------------------------

The JavaServer Faces specification defines the lifecycle of a JavaServer
Faces application. For more information on this lifecycle, see
link:jsf-intro007.html#BNAQQ[The Lifecycle of a JavaServer Faces
Application]. The following steps describe that process as applied to a
Facelets-based application.

1.  When a client, such as a browser, makes a new request to a page that
is created using Facelets, a new component tree or
`javax.faces.component.UIViewRoot` is created and placed in the
`FacesContext`.
2.  [[BABGCBAJ]]
+
The `UIViewRoot` is applied to the Facelets, and the view is populated
with components for rendering.
3.  The newly built view is rendered back as a response to the client.
4.  On rendering, the state of this view is stored for the next request.
The state of input components and form data is stored.
5.  The client may interact with the view and request another view or
change from the JavaServer Faces application. At this time, the saved
view is restored from the stored state.
6.  The restored view is once again passed through the JavaServer Faces
lifecycle, which eventually will either generate a new view or re-render
the current view if there were no validation problems and no action was
triggered.
7.  If the same view is requested, the stored view is rendered once
again.
8.  If a new view is requested, then the process described in Step
link:#BABGCBAJ[2] is continued.
9.  The new view is then rendered back as a response to the client.

Commit message:

First pass at JSF (#157)
* First pass at JSF

Renamed Jakarta Faces

* Renamed to Jakarta Server Faces

Update jsf-ajax.adoc

Update jsf-ajax002.adoc

Update jsf-ajax011.adoc

Update jsf-ajax012.adoc

Update jsf-configure.adoc

Update jsf-configure001.adoc

Update jsf-configure013.adoc

Update jsf-intro.adoc

Update jsf-intro001.adoc

Update jsf-intro002.adoc

Update jsf-intro003.adoc

Update jsf-intro004.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-intro009.adoc

Update jsf-intro007.adoc

Update jsf-page.adoc

Update jsf-ws.adoc

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-facelets002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=The Lifecycle of a Facelets Application
next=jsf-facelets003.html
prev=jsf-facelets001.html
~~~~~~
The Lifecycle of a Facelets Application
=======================================

[[GIPRR]][[the-lifecycle-of-a-facelets-application]]

The Lifecycle of a Facelets Application
---------------------------------------

The Jakarta Server Faces specification defines the lifecycle of a Jakarta Server
Faces application. For more information on this lifecycle, see
link:jsf-intro007.html#BNAQQ[The Lifecycle of a Jakarta Server Faces
Application]. The following steps describe that process as applied to a
Facelets-based application.

1.  When a client, such as a browser, makes a new request to a page that
is created using Facelets, a new component tree or
`javax.faces.component.UIViewRoot` is created and placed in the
`FacesContext`.
2.  [[BABGCBAJ]]
+
The `UIViewRoot` is applied to the Facelets, and the view is populated
with components for rendering.
3.  The newly built view is rendered back as a response to the client.
4.  On rendering, the state of this view is stored for the next request.
The state of input components and form data is stored.
5.  The client may interact with the view and request another view or
change from the Jakarta Server Faces application. At this time, the saved
view is restored from the stored state.
6.  The restored view is once again passed through the Jakarta Server Faces
lifecycle, which eventually will either generate a new view or re-render
the current view if there were no validation problems and no action was
triggered.
7.  If the same view is requested, the stored view is rendered once
again.
8.  If a new view is requested, then the process described in Step
link:#BABGCBAJ[2] is continued.
9.  The new view is then rendered back as a response to the client.
