src/main/jbake/content/jsf-intro004.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=A Simple JavaServer Faces Application
next=jsf-intro005.html
prev=jsf-intro003.html
~~~~~~
A Simple JavaServer Faces Application
=====================================

[[GJAAM]][[a-simple-javaserver-faces-application]]

A Simple JavaServer Faces Application
-------------------------------------

JavaServer Faces technology provides an easy and user-friendly process
for creating web applications. Developing a simple JavaServer Faces
application typically requires the following tasks, which have already
been described in link:webapp003.html#BNADX[A Web Module That Uses
JavaServer Faces Technology: The hello1 Example]:

* Creating web pages using component tags
* Developing managed beans
* Mapping the `FacesServlet` instance

The `hello1` example includes a managed bean and two Facelets web pages.
When accessed by a client, the first web page asks the user for his or
her name, and the second page responds by providing a greeting.

For details on Facelets technology, see
link:jsf-facelets.html#GIEPX[Chapter 8, "Introduction to Facelets"]. For
details on using EL expressions, see link:jsf-el.html#GJDDD[Chapter 9,
"Expression Language"]. For details on the JavaServer Faces programming
model and building web pages using JavaServer Faces technology, see
link:jsf-page.html#BNAQZ[Chapter 10, "Using JavaServer Faces Technology
in Web Pages"].

Every web application has a lifecycle. Common tasks, such as handling
incoming requests, decoding parameters, modifying and saving state, and
rendering web pages to the browser, are all performed during a web
application lifecycle. Some web application frameworks hide the details
of the lifecycle from you, whereas others require you to manage them
manually.

By default, JavaServer Faces automatically handles most of the lifecycle
actions for you. However, it also exposes the various stages of the
request lifecycle so that you can modify or perform different actions if
your application requirements warrant it.

The lifecycle of a JavaServer Faces application starts and ends with the
following activity: The client makes a request for the web page, and the
server responds with the page. The lifecycle consists of two main
phases: Execute and Render.

During the Execute phase, several actions can take place.

* The application view is built or restored.
* The request parameter values are applied.
* Conversions and validations are performed for component values.
* Managed beans are updated with component values.
* Application logic is invoked.

For a first (initial) request, only the view is built. For subsequent
(postback) requests, some or all of the other actions can take place.

In the Render phase, the requested view is rendered as a response to the
client. Rendering is typically the process of generating output, such as
HTML or XHTML, that can be read by the client, usually a browser.

The following short description of the example JavaServer Faces
application passing through its lifecycle summarizes the activity that
takes place behind the scenes.

The `hello1` example application goes through the following stages when
it is deployed on GlassFish Server.

1.  When the `hello1` application is built and deployed on GlassFish
Server, the application is in an uninitiated state.
2.  When a client makes an initial request for the `index.xhtml` web
page, the `hello1` Facelets application is compiled.
3.  The compiled Facelets application is executed, and a new component
tree is constructed for the `hello1` application and placed in a
`FacesContext`.
4.  The component tree is populated with the component and the managed
bean property associated with it, represented by the EL expression
`hello.name`.
5.  A new view is built, based on the component tree.
6.  The view is rendered to the requesting client as a response.
7.  The component tree is destroyed automatically.
8.  On subsequent (postback) requests, the component tree is rebuilt,
and the saved state is applied.

For full details on the lifecycle, see link:jsf-intro007.html#BNAQQ[The
Lifecycle of a JavaServer Faces Application].

Commit message:

First pass at JSF
Renamed Jakarta Faces

Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/jsf-intro004.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=A Simple Jakarta Faces Application
next=jsf-intro005.html
prev=jsf-intro003.html
~~~~~~
A Simple Jakarta Faces Application
=====================================

[[GJAAM]][[a-simple-javaserver-faces-application]]

A Simple Jakarta Faces Application
-------------------------------------

Jakarta Faces technology provides an easy and user-friendly process
for creating web applications. Developing a simple Jakarta Faces
application typically requires the following tasks, which have already
been described in link:webapp003.html#BNADX[A Web Module That Uses
Jakarta Faces Technology: The hello1 Example]:

* Creating web pages using component tags
* Developing managed beans
* Mapping the `FacesServlet` instance

The `hello1` example includes a managed bean and two Facelets web pages.
When accessed by a client, the first web page asks the user for his or
her name, and the second page responds by providing a greeting.

For details on Facelets technology, see
link:jsf-facelets.html#GIEPX[Chapter 8, "Introduction to Facelets"]. For
details on using EL expressions, see link:jsf-el.html#GJDDD[Chapter 9,
"Expression Language"]. For details on the Jakarta Faces programming
model and building web pages using Jakarta Faces technology, see
link:jsf-page.html#BNAQZ[Chapter 10, "Using Jakarta Faces Technology
in Web Pages"].

Every web application has a lifecycle. Common tasks, such as handling
incoming requests, decoding parameters, modifying and saving state, and
rendering web pages to the browser, are all performed during a web
application lifecycle. Some web application frameworks hide the details
of the lifecycle from you, whereas others require you to manage them
manually.

By default, Jakarta Faces automatically handles most of the lifecycle
actions for you. However, it also exposes the various stages of the
request lifecycle so that you can modify or perform different actions if
your application requirements warrant it.

The lifecycle of a Jakarta Faces application starts and ends with the
following activity: The client makes a request for the web page, and the
server responds with the page. The lifecycle consists of two main
phases: Execute and Render.

During the Execute phase, several actions can take place.

* The application view is built or restored.
* The request parameter values are applied.
* Conversions and validations are performed for component values.
* Managed beans are updated with component values.
* Application logic is invoked.

For a first (initial) request, only the view is built. For subsequent
(postback) requests, some or all of the other actions can take place.

In the Render phase, the requested view is rendered as a response to the
client. Rendering is typically the process of generating output, such as
HTML or XHTML, that can be read by the client, usually a browser.

The following short description of the example Jakarta Faces
application passing through its lifecycle summarizes the activity that
takes place behind the scenes.

The `hello1` example application goes through the following stages when
it is deployed on GlassFish Server.

1.  When the `hello1` application is built and deployed on GlassFish
Server, the application is in an uninitiated state.
2.  When a client makes an initial request for the `index.xhtml` web
page, the `hello1` Facelets application is compiled.
3.  The compiled Facelets application is executed, and a new component
tree is constructed for the `hello1` application and placed in a
`FacesContext`.
4.  The component tree is populated with the component and the managed
bean property associated with it, represented by the EL expression
`hello.name`.
5.  A new view is built, based on the component tree.
6.  The view is rendered to the requesting client as a response.
7.  The component tree is destroyed automatically.
8.  On subsequent (postback) requests, the component tree is rebuilt,
and the saved state is applied.

For full details on the lifecycle, see link:jsf-intro007.html#BNAQQ[The
Lifecycle of a Jakarta Faces Application].
