src/main/jbake/content/jsonp005.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=JSON in Java EE RESTful Web Services
next=jsonp006.html
prev=jsonp004.html
~~~~~~
= JSON in Java EE RESTful Web Services


[[json-in-java-ee-restful-web-services]]
JSON in Java EE RESTful Web Services
------------------------------------

This section explains how the Java API for JSON Processing is related to
other Java EE packages that provide JSON support for RESTful web
services. See link:jaxrs.html#GIEPU[Chapter 32, "Building RESTful Web
Services with JAX-RS,"] for more information on RESTful web services.

Jersey, the reference implementation for JAX-RS (JSR 311) included in
GlassFish Server, provides support for binding JSON data from RESTful
resource methods to Java objects using JAXB, as described in
link:jaxrs-advanced007.html#GKKNJ[Using JAX-RS with JAXB] in
link:jaxrs-advanced.html#GJJXE[Chapter 34, "JAX-RS: Advanced Topics and
an Example"]. However, JSON support is not part of JAX-RS (JSR 311) or
JAXB (JSR 222), so that procedure may not work for Java EE
implementations other than GlassFish Server.

The Java API for JSON Processing (JSR 374) does not explicitly support
JSON binding in Java. A future JSR (JSON Binding) that is similar to
JAXB for XML is under consideration for a future release of Java EE.

You can still use the Java API for JSON Processing with JAX-RS resource
methods. For more information, see the sample code for JSON Processing
included with the Java EE 8 SDK.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/jsonp005.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=JSON in Jakarta EE RESTful Web Services
next=jsonp006.html
prev=jsonp004.html
~~~~~~
= JSON in Jakarta EE RESTful Web Services


[[json-in-java-ee-restful-web-services]]
JSON in Jakarta EE RESTful Web Services
---------------------------------------

This section explains how the Java API for JSON Processing is related to
other Jakarta EE packages that provide JSON support for RESTful web
services. See link:jaxrs.html#GIEPU[Chapter 32, "Building RESTful Web
Services with JAX-RS,"] for more information on RESTful web services.

Jersey, the reference implementation for JAX-RS (JSR 311) included in
GlassFish Server, provides support for binding JSON data from RESTful
resource methods to Java objects using JAXB, as described in
link:jaxrs-advanced007.html#GKKNJ[Using JAX-RS with JAXB] in
link:jaxrs-advanced.html#GJJXE[Chapter 34, "JAX-RS: Advanced Topics and
an Example"]. However, JSON support is not part of JAX-RS (JSR 311) or
JAXB (JSR 222), so that procedure may not work for Jakarta EE
implementations other than GlassFish Server.

The Java API for JSON Processing (JSR 374) does not explicitly support
JSON binding in Java. A future JSR (JSON Binding) that is similar to
JAXB for XML is under consideration for a future release of Jakarta EE.

You can still use the Java API for JSON Processing with JAX-RS resource
methods. For more information, see the sample code for JSON Processing
included with the Jakarta EE 8 SDK.
