src/main/jbake/content/overview005.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Java EE Containers
next=overview006.html
prev=overview004.html
~~~~~~
Java EE Containers
==================

[[BNABO]][[java-ee-containers]]

Java EE Containers
------------------

Normally, thin-client multitiered applications are hard to write because
they involve many lines of intricate code to handle transaction and
state management, multithreading, resource pooling, and other complex
low-level details. The component-based and platform-independent Java EE
architecture makes applications easy to write because business logic is
organized into reusable components. In addition, the Java EE server
provides underlying services in the form of a container for every
component type. Because you do not have to develop these services
yourself, you are free to concentrate on solving the business problem at
hand.

[[BNABP]][[container-services]]

Container Services
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Containers are the interface between a component and the low-level,
platform-specific functionality that supports the component. Before it
can be executed, a web, enterprise bean, or application client component
must be assembled into a Java EE module and deployed into its container.

The assembly process involves specifying container settings for each
component in the Java EE application and for the Java EE application
itself. Container settings customize the underlying support provided by
the Java EE server, including such services as security, transaction
management, Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) API lookups, and
remote connectivity. Here are some of the highlights.

* The Java EE security model lets you configure a web component or
enterprise bean so that system resources are accessed only by authorized
users.
* The Java EE transaction model lets you specify relationships among
methods that make up a single transaction so that all methods in one
transaction are treated as a single unit.
* JNDI lookup services provide a unified interface to multiple naming
and directory services in the enterprise so that application components
can access these services.
* The Java EE remote connectivity model manages low-level communications
between clients and enterprise beans. After an enterprise bean is
created, a client invokes methods on it as if it were in the same
virtual machine.

Because the Java EE architecture provides configurable services,
components within the same application can behave differently based on
where they are deployed. For example, an enterprise bean can have
security settings that allow it a certain level of access to database
data in one production environment and another level of database access
in another production environment.

The container also manages nonconfigurable services, such as enterprise
bean and servlet lifecycles, database connection resource pooling, data
persistence, and access to the Java EE platform APIs (see
link:overview008.html#BNACJ[Java EE 8 APIs]).

[[BNABQ]][[container-types]]

Container Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The deployment process installs Java EE application components in the
Java EE containers, as illustrated in link:#BNABR[Figure 1-5].

[[BNABR]]

.*Figure 1-5 Java EE Server and Containers*
image:img/javaeett_dt_005.png[
"Diagram of client-server communication showing servlets and web pages in
the web tier and enterprise beans in the business tier."]

The server and containers are as follows:

* Java EE server: The runtime portion of a Java EE product. A Java EE
server provides EJB and web containers.
* EJB container: Manages the execution of enterprise beans for Java EE
applications. Enterprise beans and their container run on the Java EE
server.
* Web container: Manages the execution of web pages, servlets, and some
EJB components for Java EE applications. Web components and their
container run on the Java EE server.
* Application client container: Manages the execution of application
client components. Application clients and their container run on the
client.
* Applet container: Manages the execution of applets. Consists of a web
browser and a Java Plug-in running on the client together.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/overview005.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Jakarta EE Containers
next=overview006.html
prev=overview004.html
~~~~~~
Jakarta EE Containers
=====================

[[BNABO]][[java-ee-containers]]

Jakarta EE Containers
---------------------

Normally, thin-client multitiered applications are hard to write because
they involve many lines of intricate code to handle transaction and
state management, multithreading, resource pooling, and other complex
low-level details. The component-based and platform-independent Jakarta EE
architecture makes applications easy to write because business logic is
organized into reusable components. In addition, the Jakarta EE server
provides underlying services in the form of a container for every
component type. Because you do not have to develop these services
yourself, you are free to concentrate on solving the business problem at
hand.

[[BNABP]][[container-services]]

Container Services
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Containers are the interface between a component and the low-level,
platform-specific functionality that supports the component. Before it
can be executed, a web, enterprise bean, or application client component
must be assembled into a Jakarta EE module and deployed into its container.

The assembly process involves specifying container settings for each
component in the Jakarta EE application and for the Jakarta EE application
itself. Container settings customize the underlying support provided by
the Jakarta EE server, including such services as security, transaction
management, Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) API lookups, and
remote connectivity. Here are some of the highlights.

* The Jakarta EE security model lets you configure a web component or
enterprise bean so that system resources are accessed only by authorized
users.
* The Jakarta EE transaction model lets you specify relationships among
methods that make up a single transaction so that all methods in one
transaction are treated as a single unit.
* JNDI lookup services provide a unified interface to multiple naming
and directory services in the enterprise so that application components
can access these services.
* The Jakarta EE remote connectivity model manages low-level communications
between clients and enterprise beans. After an enterprise bean is
created, a client invokes methods on it as if it were in the same
virtual machine.

Because the Jakarta EE architecture provides configurable services,
components within the same application can behave differently based on
where they are deployed. For example, an enterprise bean can have
security settings that allow it a certain level of access to database
data in one production environment and another level of database access
in another production environment.

The container also manages nonconfigurable services, such as enterprise
bean and servlet lifecycles, database connection resource pooling, data
persistence, and access to the Jakarta EE platform APIs (see
link:overview008.html#BNACJ[Jakarta EE 8 APIs]).

[[BNABQ]][[container-types]]

Container Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The deployment process installs Jakarta EE application components in the
Jakarta EE containers, as illustrated in link:#BNABR[Figure 1-5].

[[BNABR]]

.*Figure 1-5 Jakarta EE Server and Containers*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_005.png[
"Diagram of client-server communication showing servlets and web pages in
the web tier and enterprise beans in the business tier."]

The server and containers are as follows:

* Jakarta EE server: The runtime portion of a Jakarta EE product. A Jakarta EE
server provides EJB and web containers.
* EJB container: Manages the execution of enterprise beans for Jakarta EE
applications. Enterprise beans and their container run on the Jakarta EE
server.
* Web container: Manages the execution of web pages, servlets, and some
EJB components for Jakarta EE applications. Web components and their
container run on the Jakarta EE server.
* Application client container: Manages the execution of application
client components. Application clients and their container run on the
client.
* Applet container: Manages the execution of applets. Consists of a web
browser and a Java Plug-in running on the client together.
