src/main/jbake/content/overview003.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Java EE Application Model
next=overview004.html
prev=overview002.html
~~~~~~
Java EE Application Model
=========================

[[BNAAX]][[java-ee-application-model]]

Java EE Application Model
-------------------------

The Java EE application model begins with the Java programming language
and the Java virtual machine. The proven portability, security, and
developer productivity they provide form the basis of the application
model. Java EE is designed to support applications that implement
enterprise services for customers, employees, suppliers, partners, and
others who make demands on or contributions to the enterprise. Such
applications are inherently complex, potentially accessing data from a
variety of sources and distributing applications to a variety of
clients.

To better control and manage these applications, the business functions
to support these various users are conducted in the middle tier. The
middle tier represents an environment that is closely controlled by an
enterprise's information technology department. The middle tier is
typically run on dedicated server hardware and has access to the full
services of the enterprise.

The Java EE application model defines an architecture for implementing
services as multitier applications that deliver the scalability,
accessibility, and manageability needed by enterprise-level
applications. This model partitions the work needed to implement a
multitier service into the following parts:

* The business and presentation logic to be implemented by the developer
* The standard system services provided by the Java EE platform

The developer can rely on the platform to provide solutions for the hard
systems-level problems of developing a multitier service.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/overview003.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Jakarta EE Application Model
next=overview004.html
prev=overview002.html
~~~~~~
Jakarta EE Application Model
============================

[[BNAAX]][[java-ee-application-model]]

Jakarta EE Application Model
----------------------------

The Jakarta EE application model begins with the Java programming language
and the Java virtual machine. The proven portability, security, and
developer productivity they provide form the basis of the application
model. Jakarta EE is designed to support applications that implement
enterprise services for customers, employees, suppliers, partners, and
others who make demands on or contributions to the enterprise. Such
applications are inherently complex, potentially accessing data from a
variety of sources and distributing applications to a variety of
clients.

To better control and manage these applications, the business functions
to support these various users are conducted in the middle tier. The
middle tier represents an environment that is closely controlled by an
enterprise's information technology department. The middle tier is
typically run on dedicated server hardware and has access to the full
services of the enterprise.

The Jakarta EE application model defines an architecture for implementing
services as multitier applications that deliver the scalability,
accessibility, and manageability needed by enterprise-level
applications. This model partitions the work needed to implement a
multitier service into the following parts:

* The business and presentation logic to be implemented by the developer
* The standard system services provided by the Jakarta EE platform

The developer can rely on the platform to provide solutions for the hard
systems-level problems of developing a multitier service.
