src/main/jbake/content/resources001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=What Is a Resource Adapter?
next=resources002.html
prev=resources.html
~~~~~~
What Is a Resource Adapter?
===========================

[[GIPGL]][[what-is-a-resource-adapter]]

What Is a Resource Adapter?
---------------------------

A resource adapter is a Java EE component that implements the Java EE
Connector Architecture for a specific EIS. Examples of EISs include
enterprise resource planning, mainframe transaction processing, and
database systems. In a Java EE server, the Java Message Server and
JavaMail also act as EISs that you access using resource adapters. As
illustrated in link:#GJTZO[Figure 55-1], the resource adapter
facilitates communication between a Java EE application and an EIS.

[[GJTZO]]

.*Figure 55-1 Resource Adapters*
image:img/javaeett_dt_053.png[
"Resource Adapter Contracts"]

Stored in a Resource Adapter Archive (RAR) file, a resource adapter can
be deployed on any Java EE server, much like a Java EE application. A
RAR file may be contained in an Enterprise Archive (EAR) file, or it may
exist as a separate file.

A resource adapter is analogous to a JDBC driver. Both provide a
standard API through which an application can access a resource that is
outside the Java EE server. For a resource adapter, the target system is
an EIS; for a JDBC driver, it is a DBMS. Resource adapters and JDBC
drivers are rarely created by application developers. In most cases,
both types of software are built by vendors that sell tools, servers, or
integration software.

The resource adapter mediates communication between the Java EE server
and the EIS by means of contracts. The application contract defines the
API through which a Java EE component, such as an enterprise bean,
accesses the EIS. This API is the only view that the component has of
the EIS. The system contracts link the resource adapter to important
services that are managed by the Java EE server. The resource adapter
itself and its system contracts are transparent to the Java EE
component.

[[GIPGY]][[management-contracts]]

Management Contracts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Java EE Connector Architecture defines system contracts that enable
resource adapter lifecycle and thread management.

[[GIPHT]][[lifecycle-management]]

Lifecycle Management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Connector Architecture specifies a lifecycle management contract
that allows an application server to manage the lifecycle of a resource
adapter. This contract provides a mechanism for the application server
to bootstrap a resource adapter instance during the deployment or
application server startup. This contract also provides a means for the
application server to notify the resource adapter instance when it is
undeployed or when an orderly shutdown of the application server takes
place.

[[GIPIG]][[work-management-contract]]

Work Management Contract
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Connector Architecture work management contract ensures that
resource adapters use threads in the proper, recommended manner. This
contract also enables an application server to manage threads for
resource adapters.

Resource adapters that improperly use threads can jeopardize the entire
application server environment. For example, a resource adapter might
create too many threads or might not properly release threads it has
created. Poor thread handling inhibits application server shutdown and
impacts the application server's performance because creating and
destroying threads are expensive operations.

The work management contract establishes a means for the application
server to pool and reuse threads, similar to pooling and reusing
connections. By adhering to this contract, the resource adapter does not
have to manage threads itself. Instead, the resource adapter has the
application server create and provide needed threads. When it is
finished with a given thread, the resource adapter returns the thread to
the application server. The application server manages the thread,
either returning it to a pool for later reuse or destroying it. Handling
threads in this manner results in increased application server
performance and more efficient use of resources.

In addition to moving thread management to the application server, the
Connector Architecture provides a flexible model for a resource adapter
that uses threads.

* The requesting thread can choose to block (stop its own execution)
until the work thread completes.
* The requesting thread can block while it waits to get the work thread.
When the application server provides a work thread, the requesting
thread and the work thread execute in parallel.
* The resource adapter can opt to submit the work for the thread to a
queue. The thread executes the work from the queue at some later point.
The resource adapter continues its own execution from the point it
submitted the work to the queue, no matter when the thread executes it.

With the latter two approaches, the submitting thread and the work
thread may execute simultaneously or independently. For these
approaches, the contract specifies a listener mechanism to notify the
resource adapter that the thread has completed its operation. The
resource adapter can also specify the execution context for the thread,
and the work management contract controls the context in which the
thread executes.

[[GIPMK]][[generic-work-context-contract]]

Generic Work Context Contract
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The work management contract between the application server and a
resource adapter enables a resource adapter to do a task, such as
communicating with the EIS or delivering messages, by delivering `Work`
instances for execution.

A generic work context contract enables a resource adapter to control
the contexts in which the `Work` instances that it submits are executed
by the application server's `WorkManager`. A generic work context
mechanism also enables an application server to support message inflow
and delivery schemes. It also provides a richer contextual `Work`
execution environment to the resource adapter while still maintaining
control over concurrent behavior in a managed environment.

The generic work context contract standardizes the transaction context
and the security context.

[[GKCKI]][[outbound-and-inbound-contracts]]

Outbound and Inbound Contracts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Connector Architecture defines the following outbound contracts,
system-level contracts between an application server and an EIS that
enable outbound connectivity to an EIS.

* The connection management contract supports connection pooling, a
technique that enhances application performance and scalability.
Connection pooling is transparent to the application, which simply
obtains a connection to the EIS.
* The transaction management contract extends the connection management
contract and provides support for management of both local and XA
transactions.
+
A local transaction is limited in scope to a single EIS system, and the
EIS resource manager itself manages such a transaction. An XA
transaction or global transaction can span multiple resource managers.
This form of transaction requires transaction coordination by an
external transaction manager, typically bundled with an application
server. A transaction manager uses a two-phase commit protocol to manage
a transaction that spans multiple resource managers or EISs, and uses
one-phase commit optimization if only one resource manager is
participating in an XA transaction.
* The security management contract provides mechanisms for
authentication, authorization, and secure communication between a Java
EE server and an EIS to protect the information in the EIS.
+
A work security map matches EIS identities to the application server
domain's identities.

Inbound contracts are system contracts between a Java EE server and an
EIS that enable inbound connectivity from the EIS: pluggability
contracts for message providers and contracts for importing
transactions.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/resources001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=What Is a Resource Adapter?
next=resources002.html
prev=resources.html
~~~~~~
What Is a Resource Adapter?
===========================

[[GIPGL]][[what-is-a-resource-adapter]]

What Is a Resource Adapter?
---------------------------

A resource adapter is a Jakarta EE component that implements the Jakarta EE
Connector Architecture for a specific EIS. Examples of EISs include
enterprise resource planning, mainframe transaction processing, and
database systems. In a Jakarta EE server, the Java Message Server and
JavaMail also act as EISs that you access using resource adapters. As
illustrated in link:#GJTZO[Figure 55-1], the resource adapter
facilitates communication between a Jakarta EE application and an EIS.

[[GJTZO]]

.*Figure 55-1 Resource Adapters*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_053.png[
"Resource Adapter Contracts"]

Stored in a Resource Adapter Archive (RAR) file, a resource adapter can
be deployed on any Jakarta EE server, much like a Jakarta EE application. A
RAR file may be contained in an Enterprise Archive (EAR) file, or it may
exist as a separate file.

A resource adapter is analogous to a JDBC driver. Both provide a
standard API through which an application can access a resource that is
outside the Jakarta EE server. For a resource adapter, the target system is
an EIS; for a JDBC driver, it is a DBMS. Resource adapters and JDBC
drivers are rarely created by application developers. In most cases,
both types of software are built by vendors that sell tools, servers, or
integration software.

The resource adapter mediates communication between the Jakarta EE server
and the EIS by means of contracts. The application contract defines the
API through which a Jakarta EE component, such as an enterprise bean,
accesses the EIS. This API is the only view that the component has of
the EIS. The system contracts link the resource adapter to important
services that are managed by the Jakarta EE server. The resource adapter
itself and its system contracts are transparent to the Jakarta EE
component.

[[GIPGY]][[management-contracts]]

Management Contracts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Jakarta EE Connector Architecture defines system contracts that enable
resource adapter lifecycle and thread management.

[[GIPHT]][[lifecycle-management]]

Lifecycle Management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Connector Architecture specifies a lifecycle management contract
that allows an application server to manage the lifecycle of a resource
adapter. This contract provides a mechanism for the application server
to bootstrap a resource adapter instance during the deployment or
application server startup. This contract also provides a means for the
application server to notify the resource adapter instance when it is
undeployed or when an orderly shutdown of the application server takes
place.

[[GIPIG]][[work-management-contract]]

Work Management Contract
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Connector Architecture work management contract ensures that
resource adapters use threads in the proper, recommended manner. This
contract also enables an application server to manage threads for
resource adapters.

Resource adapters that improperly use threads can jeopardize the entire
application server environment. For example, a resource adapter might
create too many threads or might not properly release threads it has
created. Poor thread handling inhibits application server shutdown and
impacts the application server's performance because creating and
destroying threads are expensive operations.

The work management contract establishes a means for the application
server to pool and reuse threads, similar to pooling and reusing
connections. By adhering to this contract, the resource adapter does not
have to manage threads itself. Instead, the resource adapter has the
application server create and provide needed threads. When it is
finished with a given thread, the resource adapter returns the thread to
the application server. The application server manages the thread,
either returning it to a pool for later reuse or destroying it. Handling
threads in this manner results in increased application server
performance and more efficient use of resources.

In addition to moving thread management to the application server, the
Connector Architecture provides a flexible model for a resource adapter
that uses threads.

* The requesting thread can choose to block (stop its own execution)
until the work thread completes.
* The requesting thread can block while it waits to get the work thread.
When the application server provides a work thread, the requesting
thread and the work thread execute in parallel.
* The resource adapter can opt to submit the work for the thread to a
queue. The thread executes the work from the queue at some later point.
The resource adapter continues its own execution from the point it
submitted the work to the queue, no matter when the thread executes it.

With the latter two approaches, the submitting thread and the work
thread may execute simultaneously or independently. For these
approaches, the contract specifies a listener mechanism to notify the
resource adapter that the thread has completed its operation. The
resource adapter can also specify the execution context for the thread,
and the work management contract controls the context in which the
thread executes.

[[GIPMK]][[generic-work-context-contract]]

Generic Work Context Contract
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The work management contract between the application server and a
resource adapter enables a resource adapter to do a task, such as
communicating with the EIS or delivering messages, by delivering `Work`
instances for execution.

A generic work context contract enables a resource adapter to control
the contexts in which the `Work` instances that it submits are executed
by the application server's `WorkManager`. A generic work context
mechanism also enables an application server to support message inflow
and delivery schemes. It also provides a richer contextual `Work`
execution environment to the resource adapter while still maintaining
control over concurrent behavior in a managed environment.

The generic work context contract standardizes the transaction context
and the security context.

[[GKCKI]][[outbound-and-inbound-contracts]]

Outbound and Inbound Contracts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Connector Architecture defines the following outbound contracts,
system-level contracts between an application server and an EIS that
enable outbound connectivity to an EIS.

* The connection management contract supports connection pooling, a
technique that enhances application performance and scalability.
Connection pooling is transparent to the application, which simply
obtains a connection to the EIS.
* The transaction management contract extends the connection management
contract and provides support for management of both local and XA
transactions.
+
A local transaction is limited in scope to a single EIS system, and the
EIS resource manager itself manages such a transaction. An XA
transaction or global transaction can span multiple resource managers.
This form of transaction requires transaction coordination by an
external transaction manager, typically bundled with an application
server. A transaction manager uses a two-phase commit protocol to manage
a transaction that spans multiple resource managers or EISs, and uses
one-phase commit optimization if only one resource manager is
participating in an XA transaction.
* The security management contract provides mechanisms for
authentication, authorization, and secure communication between a Java
EE server and an EIS to protect the information in the EIS.
+
A work security map matches EIS identities to the application server
domain's identities.

Inbound contracts are system contracts between a Jakarta EE server and an
EIS that enable inbound connectivity from the EIS: pluggability
contracts for message providers and contracts for importing
transactions.
