src/main/jbake/content/security-api001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=About the Java EE Security API
next=security-api002.html
prev=security-api.html
~~~~~~
= About the Java EE Security API

[[about-the-java-ee-security-api]]
About the Java EE Security API
------------------------------

Java EE includes support for JSR 375, which defines portable, plug-in interfaces
for authentication and identity stores, and a new injectable-type SecurityContext
interface that provides an access point for programmatic security. You can use
the built-in implementations of these APIs, or define custom
implementations.

The Java EE Security API contains the following packages:

* The `javax.security.enterprise` package is the main Java EE security API package
and contains classes and interfaces that span authentication, authorization, and
identity concerns. link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-enterprise[Table 51-1] lists
the main class and interfaces in this package.

* The `javax.security.enterprise.authentication.mechanism.http` package contains
classes and interfaces associated with HTTP-based authentication mechanisms that
can interact with a caller or third-parties as part of an authentication protocol.
link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-authentication[Table 51-2] lists the main classes
and interfaces in this package.

* The `javax.javax.security.enterprise.credential` package contains classes and
interfaces for representing user credentials. link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-credential[Table 51-3]
lists the main classes and interfaces in this package.

* The `javax.security.enterprise.identitystore` package contains classes and
interfaces associated with identity stores that validate a caller's credentials
and lookup caller groups. link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-identitystore[Table 51-4]
lists the main classes and interfaces in this package.



[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-enterprise]]

*Table 51-1  Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise*

[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`SecurityContext` |Injectable-type interface that provides an access point for
programmatic security intended to be used by application code to query and interact
with the Java EE Security API.

|`CallerPrincipal` |Principal type that can represent the identity of the
application caller.

|`AuthenticationStatus` |Enum used to indicate the return value from an authentication
mechanism.

|`AuthenticationException` |Indicates that a problem occurred during the
authentication process.
|=======================================================================

[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-authentication]]


*Table 51-2 Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise.authentication.mechanism.http*
[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`HttpAuthenticationMechanism` |Interface representing an HTTP authentication mechanism.
Developers can provide their own implementation of this interface, or use one of
several built-in HTTP authentication mechanisms.

|`HttpMessageContext` |Interface representing the parameters passed to/from methods
of an `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` at runtime.

|`AuthenticationParameters` |Class that carries parameters passed to the
`SecurityContext.authenticate()` method.

|`HttpMessageContextWrapper` |Abstract class developers can extend to
customize `HttpMessageContext` behavior.
|=======================================================================

[width="99%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Note:*
The `javax.security.enterprise.authentication.mechanism.http` package also includes
a number of annotation classes that are used to configure/enable the built-in
authentication mechanisms or to modify the behavior of an authentication mechanism.
|=======================================================================



[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-credential]]

*Table 51-3 Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise.credential*
[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`Credential` |Interface that represents a generic credential and defines
several methods to operate on credentials. All other classes in this package
are implementations of the Credential interface.

|`AbstractClearableCredential` |Abstract class implementing behavior common to
Credentials that can be meaningfully cleared.

|`BasicAuthenticationCredential` |Class that extends `UsernamePasswordCredential`
to represent credentials used by HTTP Basic Authentication.

|`CallerOnlyCredential` |Credential that contains a caller name only; can be
used to assert an identity, but not to authenticate a user, due to the lack of
any secret or other credential that can be validated.

|`Password` |Class that represents a text-based password.

|`RememberMeCredential` |Class that represents a credential presented as a token,
for the explicit usage with the JSR 375 remember me function.

|`UsernamePasswordCredential` |Class that represents the credentials typically
used by standard caller name/password authentication.
|=======================================================================

[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-identitystore]]

*Table 51-4 Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise.identitystore*
[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`IdentityStore` |Interface representing an Identity Store.
Developers can provide their own implementation of this interface, or use one of
the built-in Identity Stores.

|`IdentityStoreHandler` |Interface that defines the method applications use to
interact with Identity Stores. Applications can use the built-in
IdentityStoreHandler, or supply their own implementation if custom behavior is desired.

|`PasswordHash` |Interface defining methods for generating and
validating password hashes, needed to securely validate passwords when using
the built-in Database Identity Store. Developers can implement this interface
to generate/validate password hashes using any desired algorithm.

|`Pbkdf2PasswordHash` |Marker interface implemented by the built-in PBKDF2
PasswordHash implementation. Developers can use this interface to select the
built-in PBKDF2 algorithm when configuring the Database Identity Store.

|`RememberMeIdentityStore` |Interface defining a special type of Identity Store,
used in conjunction with the RememberMe annotation to provide RememberMe
behavior for an application.

|`CredentialValidationResult` |Class that represents the result from an attempt
to validate a Credential.

|`IdentityStorePermission` |Permission required to invoke the `getGroups` method of an
IdentityStore, when a SecurityManager is configured.
|=======================================================================

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/security-api001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=About the Jakarta EE Security API
next=security-api002.html
prev=security-api.html
~~~~~~
= About the Jakarta EE Security API

[[about-the-java-ee-security-api]]
About the Jakarta EE Security API
---------------------------------

Jakarta EE includes support for JSR 375, which defines portable, plug-in interfaces
for authentication and identity stores, and a new injectable-type SecurityContext
interface that provides an access point for programmatic security. You can use
the built-in implementations of these APIs, or define custom
implementations.

The Jakarta EE Security API contains the following packages:

* The `javax.security.enterprise` package is the main Jakarta EE security API package
and contains classes and interfaces that span authentication, authorization, and
identity concerns. link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-enterprise[Table 51-1] lists
the main class and interfaces in this package.

* The `javax.security.enterprise.authentication.mechanism.http` package contains
classes and interfaces associated with HTTP-based authentication mechanisms that
can interact with a caller or third-parties as part of an authentication protocol.
link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-authentication[Table 51-2] lists the main classes
and interfaces in this package.

* The `javax.javax.security.enterprise.credential` package contains classes and
interfaces for representing user credentials. link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-credential[Table 51-3]
lists the main classes and interfaces in this package.

* The `javax.security.enterprise.identitystore` package contains classes and
interfaces associated with identity stores that validate a caller's credentials
and lookup caller groups. link:#main-classes-and-interfaces-in-identitystore[Table 51-4]
lists the main classes and interfaces in this package.



[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-enterprise]]

*Table 51-1  Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise*

[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`SecurityContext` |Injectable-type interface that provides an access point for
programmatic security intended to be used by application code to query and interact
with the Jakarta EE Security API.

|`CallerPrincipal` |Principal type that can represent the identity of the
application caller.

|`AuthenticationStatus` |Enum used to indicate the return value from an authentication
mechanism.

|`AuthenticationException` |Indicates that a problem occurred during the
authentication process.
|=======================================================================

[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-authentication]]


*Table 51-2 Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise.authentication.mechanism.http*
[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`HttpAuthenticationMechanism` |Interface representing an HTTP authentication mechanism.
Developers can provide their own implementation of this interface, or use one of
several built-in HTTP authentication mechanisms.

|`HttpMessageContext` |Interface representing the parameters passed to/from methods
of an `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` at runtime.

|`AuthenticationParameters` |Class that carries parameters passed to the
`SecurityContext.authenticate()` method.

|`HttpMessageContextWrapper` |Abstract class developers can extend to
customize `HttpMessageContext` behavior.
|=======================================================================

[width="99%",cols="100%",]
|=======================================================================
a|
*Note:*
The `javax.security.enterprise.authentication.mechanism.http` package also includes
a number of annotation classes that are used to configure/enable the built-in
authentication mechanisms or to modify the behavior of an authentication mechanism.
|=======================================================================



[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-credential]]

*Table 51-3 Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise.credential*
[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`Credential` |Interface that represents a generic credential and defines
several methods to operate on credentials. All other classes in this package
are implementations of the Credential interface.

|`AbstractClearableCredential` |Abstract class implementing behavior common to
Credentials that can be meaningfully cleared.

|`BasicAuthenticationCredential` |Class that extends `UsernamePasswordCredential`
to represent credentials used by HTTP Basic Authentication.

|`CallerOnlyCredential` |Credential that contains a caller name only; can be
used to assert an identity, but not to authenticate a user, due to the lack of
any secret or other credential that can be validated.

|`Password` |Class that represents a text-based password.

|`RememberMeCredential` |Class that represents a credential presented as a token,
for the explicit usage with the JSR 375 remember me function.

|`UsernamePasswordCredential` |Class that represents the credentials typically
used by standard caller name/password authentication.
|=======================================================================

[[main-classes-and-interfaces-in-identitystore]]

*Table 51-4 Main Classes and Interfaces in javax.security.enterprise.identitystore*
[width=99%,cols="25%,75%"]
|=======================================================================
|*Class or Interface* |*Description*
|`IdentityStore` |Interface representing an Identity Store.
Developers can provide their own implementation of this interface, or use one of
the built-in Identity Stores.

|`IdentityStoreHandler` |Interface that defines the method applications use to
interact with Identity Stores. Applications can use the built-in
IdentityStoreHandler, or supply their own implementation if custom behavior is desired.

|`PasswordHash` |Interface defining methods for generating and
validating password hashes, needed to securely validate passwords when using
the built-in Database Identity Store. Developers can implement this interface
to generate/validate password hashes using any desired algorithm.

|`Pbkdf2PasswordHash` |Marker interface implemented by the built-in PBKDF2
PasswordHash implementation. Developers can use this interface to select the
built-in PBKDF2 algorithm when configuring the Database Identity Store.

|`RememberMeIdentityStore` |Interface defining a special type of Identity Store,
used in conjunction with the RememberMe annotation to provide RememberMe
behavior for an application.

|`CredentialValidationResult` |Class that represents the result from an attempt
to validate a Credential.

|`IdentityStorePermission` |Permission required to invoke the `getGroups` method of an
IdentityStore, when a SecurityManager is configured.
|=======================================================================
