src/main/jbake/content/security-intro003a.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Using Pluggable Providers
next=security-intro004.html
prev=security-intro003.html
~~~~~~
= Using Pluggable Providers

[[using-pluggable-providers]]
Using Pluggable Providers
-------------------------
Java EE includes two specifications that define SPI interfaces for
pluggable security providers, JSR-196 and JSR-375. These specifications are
described in more detail in the following sections:

* link:#jsr-196-java-authentication-service-provider-interface-for-containers-jaspic[JSR-196 Java
Authentication Service Provider Interface for Containers (JASPIC)]
* link:#jsr-375-java-ee-security-api[JSR-375 Java EE Security API]

[[jsr-196-java-authentication-service-provider-interface-for-containers-jaspic]]
JSR-196 Java Authentication Service Provider Interface for Containers (JASPIC)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JSR-196 defines a model for securing messages sent between a client and server in
which the sender of a message "secures" it, and the receiver "validates" it.
The details of how messages are secured and validated are undefined by the model;
support for securing and validating particular types of messages is provided by
"auth modules" -- implementations of the JASPIC `ClientAuthModule` and
`ServerAuthModule` interfaces -- that support particular protocols or message types,
and that plug in to the JASPIC framework. (Note that it is not necessary for a
client and server to both use JASPIC, as long as both sides process messages
correctly for a given protocol.)

JASPIC defines two "profiles" for integrating JASPIC auth modules into Java EE
containers: the Servlet Container Profile, and the SOAP Profile. Each specifies
how JASPIC message processing must be integrated into the request processing flow
of the container in question to validate incoming requests and secure outgoing
responses.

In the case of the Servlet Container Profile, if a `ServerAuthModule` is configured/available
for a given application context, then the modules's `validateRequest()` method must be
invoked (and succeed) before authorizing access and calling the target servlet,
and the module's `secureResponse()` method must be called before returning a response.
Typically, a `ServerAuthModule` written for the Servlet Container Profile looks for
user credentials or tokens in an incoming request, and then uses them to authenticate the caller and establish
the caller's identity. A `ServerAuthModule` may also engage in a challenge/response
protocol with the client, or negotiate with a third party to establish/verify the
client's identity.

As with the Servlet Container Profile, the SOAP Profile requires that
`validateRequest()` be called and succeed before proceeding to authorize access and
perform any further processing of an incoming message, and that `secureResponse()`
is called for the response before it is sent. In contrast to the Servlet
Container Profile, `validateRequest()` processing for SOAP messages typically involves
verifying signatures on signed elements, decrypting encrypted elements, and/or
establishing the identity of a SOAP actor based on a token included in the message,
while `secureResponse()` typically involves signing and/or encrypting elements
of the outbound message.

JASPIC does not define any standard or built-in ServerAuthModules; they must be
provided either by the application using the module, or as a non-standard
extension of a particular vendor's Java EE product. ServerAuthModules can
sometimes be directly configured for an application in a vendor-specific way, but
the standard mechanism for making a `ServerAuthModule` available to an application
is to register a corresponding `AuthConfigProvider` with the global `AuthConfigFactory`.
An `AuthConfigProvider` makes a `ServerAuthModule` available to the container, via a
series of intermediary objects, for runtime message processing.

[[jsr-375-java-ee-security-api]]
JSR-375 Java EE Security API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
JSR-375 defines the following authentication-related plugin SPIs:

* `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` - An interface for modules that authenticate callers
to a web application. It defines three methods that correspond to the methods of a
JASPIC `ServerAuthModule`, albeit with slightly different signatures.
An `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` provides similar functionality to a `ServerAuthModule`,
and the Servlet Container uses a special `ServerAuthModule` to invoke the
HttpAuthenticationMechanism's methods, but HttpAuthenticationMechanisms are
simpler to write, and to deploy, than are ServerAuthModules.

* `IdentityStore` - This interface defines methods for validating a caller's
credentials (such as username and password) and returning group membership information.
IdentityStores are invoked under the control of an `IdentityStoreHandler`, which, if
multiple IdentityStores are present, calls the available IdentityStores in a
specific order and aggregates the results.

* `RememberMeIdentityStore` - This interface is a variation on the `IdentityStore`
interface, intended specifically to address cases where an authenticated user's
identity should be remembered for an extended period of time, so that the caller
can return to the application periodically without needing to present primary
authentication credentials each time.

Implementations of these SPI interfaces are CDI beans, and, as such, applications
can provide implementations that support application-specific authentication
mechanisms, or validate user credentials against application-specific identity stores,
simply by including them in a bean archive that is part of the deployed application.
There are also several standard, built-in implementations of `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`
and `IdentityStore` that provide configurable support for common authentication and
credential validation use cases, without the need to write custom implementations.

Because these SPIs, related annotations, and the CDI deployment mechanism are all
part of standard Java EE, implementations are completely portable (to the extent
they do not rely internally on platform-specific APIs or libraries) and can be
portably deployed to any Java EE server.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/security-intro003a.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Using Pluggable Providers
next=security-intro004.html
prev=security-intro003.html
~~~~~~
= Using Pluggable Providers

[[using-pluggable-providers]]
Using Pluggable Providers
-------------------------
Jakarta EE includes two specifications that define SPI interfaces for
pluggable security providers, JSR-196 and JSR-375. These specifications are
described in more detail in the following sections:

* link:#jsr-196-java-authentication-service-provider-interface-for-containers-jaspic[JSR-196 Java
Authentication Service Provider Interface for Containers (JASPIC)]
* link:#jsr-375-java-ee-security-api[JSR-375 Jakarta EE Security API]

[[jsr-196-java-authentication-service-provider-interface-for-containers-jaspic]]
JSR-196 Java Authentication Service Provider Interface for Containers (JASPIC)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

JSR-196 defines a model for securing messages sent between a client and server in
which the sender of a message "secures" it, and the receiver "validates" it.
The details of how messages are secured and validated are undefined by the model;
support for securing and validating particular types of messages is provided by
"auth modules" -- implementations of the JASPIC `ClientAuthModule` and
`ServerAuthModule` interfaces -- that support particular protocols or message types,
and that plug in to the JASPIC framework. (Note that it is not necessary for a
client and server to both use JASPIC, as long as both sides process messages
correctly for a given protocol.)

JASPIC defines two "profiles" for integrating JASPIC auth modules into Jakarta EE
containers: the Servlet Container Profile, and the SOAP Profile. Each specifies
how JASPIC message processing must be integrated into the request processing flow
of the container in question to validate incoming requests and secure outgoing
responses.

In the case of the Servlet Container Profile, if a `ServerAuthModule` is configured/available
for a given application context, then the modules's `validateRequest()` method must be
invoked (and succeed) before authorizing access and calling the target servlet,
and the module's `secureResponse()` method must be called before returning a response.
Typically, a `ServerAuthModule` written for the Servlet Container Profile looks for
user credentials or tokens in an incoming request, and then uses them to authenticate the caller and establish
the caller's identity. A `ServerAuthModule` may also engage in a challenge/response
protocol with the client, or negotiate with a third party to establish/verify the
client's identity.

As with the Servlet Container Profile, the SOAP Profile requires that
`validateRequest()` be called and succeed before proceeding to authorize access and
perform any further processing of an incoming message, and that `secureResponse()`
is called for the response before it is sent. In contrast to the Servlet
Container Profile, `validateRequest()` processing for SOAP messages typically involves
verifying signatures on signed elements, decrypting encrypted elements, and/or
establishing the identity of a SOAP actor based on a token included in the message,
while `secureResponse()` typically involves signing and/or encrypting elements
of the outbound message.

JASPIC does not define any standard or built-in ServerAuthModules; they must be
provided either by the application using the module, or as a non-standard
extension of a particular vendor's Jakarta EE product. ServerAuthModules can
sometimes be directly configured for an application in a vendor-specific way, but
the standard mechanism for making a `ServerAuthModule` available to an application
is to register a corresponding `AuthConfigProvider` with the global `AuthConfigFactory`.
An `AuthConfigProvider` makes a `ServerAuthModule` available to the container, via a
series of intermediary objects, for runtime message processing.

[[jsr-375-java-ee-security-api]]
JSR-375 Jakarta EE Security API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
JSR-375 defines the following authentication-related plugin SPIs:

* `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` - An interface for modules that authenticate callers
to a web application. It defines three methods that correspond to the methods of a
JASPIC `ServerAuthModule`, albeit with slightly different signatures.
An `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` provides similar functionality to a `ServerAuthModule`,
and the Servlet Container uses a special `ServerAuthModule` to invoke the
HttpAuthenticationMechanism's methods, but HttpAuthenticationMechanisms are
simpler to write, and to deploy, than are ServerAuthModules.

* `IdentityStore` - This interface defines methods for validating a caller's
credentials (such as username and password) and returning group membership information.
IdentityStores are invoked under the control of an `IdentityStoreHandler`, which, if
multiple IdentityStores are present, calls the available IdentityStores in a
specific order and aggregates the results.

* `RememberMeIdentityStore` - This interface is a variation on the `IdentityStore`
interface, intended specifically to address cases where an authenticated user's
identity should be remembered for an extended period of time, so that the caller
can return to the application periodically without needing to present primary
authentication credentials each time.

Implementations of these SPI interfaces are CDI beans, and, as such, applications
can provide implementations that support application-specific authentication
mechanisms, or validate user credentials against application-specific identity stores,
simply by including them in a bean archive that is part of the deployed application.
There are also several standard, built-in implementations of `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`
and `IdentityStore` that provide configurable support for common authentication and
credential validation use cases, without the need to write custom implementations.

Because these SPIs, related annotations, and the CDI deployment mechanism are all
part of standard Jakarta EE, implementations are completely portable (to the extent
they do not rely internally on platform-specific APIs or libraries) and can be
portably deployed to any Jakarta EE server.
