src/main/jbake/content/security-api003.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Overview of the Identity Store Interfaces
next=security-api004.html
prev=security-api002.html
~~~~~~
= Overview of the Identity Store Interfaces

[[overview-of-the-identity-store-interfaces]]
Overview of the Identity Store Interfaces
-----------------------------------------
The Identity Store Interfaces are described in the following sections:

* link:#the-identitystore-interface[The IdentityStore Interface]
* link:#the-remembermeidentitystore-interface[The RememberMeIdentityStore Interface]

[[the-identitystore-interface]]
The IdentityStore Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The `IdentityStore` interface defines an SPI for interacting with identity stores,
which are directories or databases containing user account information.
An implementation of the `IdentityStore` interface can validate users' credentials,
provide information about the groups they belong to, or both. Most often, an
`IdentityStore` implementation will interact with an external identity store --
an LDAP server, for example -- to perform the actual credential validation and
group lookups, but an `IdentityStore` may also manage user account data itself.

There are two built-in implementations of `IdentityStore`: an LDAP identity store,
and a Database identity store. These identity stores delegate to external stores
that must already exist; the IdentityStore implementations do not provide or
manage the external store. They are configured with the parameters necessary
to communicate with an external store using the following annotations:

* `LdapIdentityStoreDefinition` -- configures an identity store with the parameters
necessary to communicate with an external LDAP server, validate user credentials,
and/or lookup user groups.

* `DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition` -- configures an identity store with the
parameters necessary to connect to an external database, validate user credentials,
and/or lookup user groups. You must supply a PasswordHash implementation when
configuring a Database Identity Store. See link:#the-passwordhash-interface[The PasswordHash Interface].

An application can provide its own custom identity store, or use the built-in LDAP or database
identity stores. For examples of both types, see:

* link:security-api004.html#running-the-built-in-database-identity-store-example[Running the Built-In Database Identity Store Example]

* link:security-api005.html#running-the-custom-identity-store-example[Running the Custom Identity Store Example]

An implementation of `IdentityStore` must be a
CDI bean to be recognized and deployed at runtime, and is assumed to be normal scoped.
IdentityStores are primarily intended for use by implementations of
`HttpAuthenticationMechanisms`, but this is not a requirement.
They can be used by other types of authentication mechanisms as well, or by containers.

Multiple implementations of `IdentityStore` may be present. If so, they are invoked
under the control of an `IdentityStoreHandler`.

[[identitystorehandler]]
IdentityStoreHandler
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Authentication mechanisms do not interact with `IdentityStore` directly; instead,
they call an `IdentityStoreHandler`. An implementation of the `IdentityStoreHandler`
interface provides a single method, `validate(Credential)`, which, when invoked,
iterates over the available IdentityStores and returns an aggregated result.
An `IdentityStoreHandler` must also be a CDI bean, and is assumed to be normal scoped.
At runtime, an authentication mechanism injects the `IdentityStoreHandler` and
invokes on it. The `IdentityStoreHandler`, in turn, looks up the available IdentityStores
and invokes on them to determine the aggregate result.

There is a built-in `IdentityStoreHandler` that implements a standard algorithm
defined by JSR-375. The JSR-375 specification provides a full description of
the algorithm, but it can be roughly summarized as follows:

* Iterate over the available validating IdentityStores, in priority order,
until the provided Credential is validated or there are no more IdentityStores.

* If the Credential was validated, iterate over the available group-providing
IdentityStores, in priority order, aggregating the groups returned by each store.

* Return the validated caller and group information.

An application may also supply its own `IdentityStoreHandler`, which can use any
desired algorithm to select and invoke on IdentityStores, and return an
aggregated (or non-aggregated) result.

[[identitystoreinterface-methods]]
IdentityStore Interface Methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The IdentityStore interface itself has four methods:

* `validate(Credential)` -- validate a Credential, and return the result of that
validation.

* `getCallerGroups(CredentialValidationResult)` -- return the groups associated
with the caller indicated by the supplied `CredentialValidationResult`, which
represents the result of a previous, successful validation.

* `validationTypes()` -- returns a Set of validation types (one or more of
`VALIDATE`, `PROVIDE_GROUPS`)
that indicate the operations supported by this instance of the `IdentityStore`.

* `priority()` -- returns a positive integer representing the self-declared
priority of this IdentityStore. Lower values represent higher priority.

Because `getCallerGroups()` is a sensitive operation -- it can return information
about arbitrary users, and does not require that the caller provide the user's
credential or proof of identity -- the caller should have the
`IdentityStorePermission("getGroups")` permission. Enforcement of this check is
incumbent on the implementation of the `getCallerGroups()` method; the built-in
IdentityStores do check for this permission, if a SecurityManager is configured,
and the built-in IdentityStoreHandler invokes the `getCallerGroups()` method in
the context of a `PrivilegedAction` block.

[[the-passwordhash-interface]]
The PasswordHash Interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unlike some types of identity stores, for example LDAP directories,
databases can store and retrieve user passwords, but can't verify them natively.
Therefore, the built-in Database identity store must verify user passwords itself.
Most often, this involves generating a hash of the user's password for comparison
with a hash value stored in the database.

In order to provide maximum flexibility and interoperability, the Database identity
store does not implement any specific password hashing algorithms. Instead, it
defines the `PasswordHash` interface, and expects the application to provide an
implementation of `PasswordHash` that can verify passwords from the specific store
the application will use. The `PasswordHash` implementation must be made available
as a dependent-scoped bean, and is configured by providing the fully-qualified
name of the desired type as the `hashAlgorithm` value on a `DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition`.

The `PasswordHash` algorithm defines three methods:

* `initialize(Map<String,String> parameters)` -- initialize the PasswordHash with
the supplied Map of parameters. The Database identity store calls this method when
initializing, passing the `hashAlgorithmParameters` value of the
`DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation (after conversion to a Map).

* `verify(char[] password, String hashedPassword)` -- verify a caller-supplied
password against the caller's stored password hash as retrieved from the database.
The `hashedPassword` value should be provided exactly as it was returned from the database.

* `generate(char[] password)` -- generate a password hash from the supplied password.
The value returned should be formatted and encoded exactly it would be stored
in the database. While it is useful to generate the hash of a caller-supplied password
during `verify()`, this method is intended primarily for use by applications or
`IdentityStore` implementations that want to support password management/reset
capability without having to duplicate the code used to verify passwords.

Note that, while the interface is oriented toward hashing passwords, it can also
support alternative approaches, such as two-way encryption of stored passwords.

There is a built-in `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` implementation that supports, as it's
name suggests, PBKDF2 password hashing. It supports several parameters that
control the generation of hash values
(key size, iterations, and so on -- see the Javadoc),
and those parameters are encoded into the resulting hash value, so that hashes
can be verified even if the currently configured parameters are different from
the parameters in effect when a stored hash was generated.

While it is necessary to write a custom `PasswordHash` to enable interoperability
with a legacy identity store that stores password hashes in a format other
than the `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` format, developers should consider carefully
whether `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` is sufficient for new identity stores, and avoid
writing a new PasswordHash implementation without a solid understanding of the
cryptographic and other security considerations involved. Some of the
considerations specific to password hashing are:

* The requirements for hashing passwords differ considerably from the requirements
for hashing in other contexts. In particular, speed is normally a virtue when
generating hashes, but when generating password hashes, slower is better -- to
slow down brute force attacks against hashed values.

* The comparison of a generated hash with a stored hash should take constant time,
whether it succeeds or fails, in order to avoid giving an attacker clues about
the password value based on the timing of failed attempts.

* A new random salt should be used each time a new password hash value is generated.

[[the-remembermeidentitystore-interface]]
The RememberMeIdentityStore Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The `RememberMeIdentityStore` interface represents a special type of identity store.
It is not directly related to the `IdentityStore` interface; that is, it does not
implement or extend it. It does, however, perform a similar, albeit specialized, function.

In some cases, an application wants to "remember" a user's authenticated session
for an extended period. For example, a web site may remember you when you visit,
and prompt for your password only periodically, perhaps once every two weeks,
as long as you don't explicitly log out.

RememberMe works as follows:

* When a request from an unauthenicated user is received, the user is authenticated
using an `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` that is provided by the application
(this is required -- `RememberMeIdentityStore` can only be used in conjunction with an
  application-supplied `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`).

* After authentication, the configured `RememberMeIdentityStore` saves information
about the user's authenticated identity, so that it be restored later, and
generates a long-lived "remember me" login token that is sent back to the client,
perhaps as a cookie.

* On a subsequent visit to the application, the client presents the login token.
The `RememberMeIdentityStore` then validates the token and returns the stored user
identity, which is then established as the user's authenticated identity.
If the token is invalid or expired, it is discarded, the user is authenticated
normally again, and a new login token is generated.

The `RememberMeIdentityStore` interface defines the following methods:

* `generateLoginToken(CallerPrincipal caller, Set<String> groups)` -- generate a
login token for a newly authenticated user, and associate it with the provided
caller/group information.

* `removeLoginToken(String token)` -- remove the (presumably expired or invalid)
login token and any associated caller/group information.

* `validate(RememberMeCredential credential)` -- validate the supplied credential, and,
if valid, return the associated caller/group information. (`RememberMeCredential` is
  essentially just a holder for a login token).

An implementation of `RememberMeIdentityStore` must be a CDI bean, and is assumed
to be normal scoped. It is configured by adding a `RememberMe` annotation to an
application's `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`, which indicates that a
`RememberMeIdentityStore` is in use, and provides related configuration parameters.
A container-supplied interceptor then intercepts calls to the `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`,
invokes the `RememberMeIdentityStore` as necessary before and after calls to the
authentication mechanism, and ensures that the user's identity is correctly
set for the session. The JSR-375 specification provides a detailed description
of the required interceptor behavior.

Implementations of `RememberMeIdentityStore` should take care to manage tokens
and user identity information securely. For example, login tokens should not
contain sensitive user information, like credentials or sensitive attributes,
to avoid exposing that information if an attacker were able to gain access
to the token -- even an encrypted token is potentially vulnerable to an
attacker with sufficient time/resources. Similarly, tokens should be
encrypted/signed wherever possible, and sent only over secure channels (HTTPS).
User identity information managed by a `RememberMeIdentityStore` should be stored
as securely as possible (but does not necessarily need to be reliably persisted --
the only impact of a "forgotten" session is that the user will be prompted to
log in again).

Commit message:

First pass at security
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/jbake/content/security-api003.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Overview of the Identity Store Interfaces
next=security-api004.html
prev=security-api002.html
~~~~~~
= Overview of the Identity Store Interfaces

[[overview-of-the-identity-store-interfaces]]
Overview of the Identity Store Interfaces
-----------------------------------------
The Identity Store Interfaces are described in the following sections:

* link:#the-identitystore-interface[The IdentityStore Interface]
* link:#the-remembermeidentitystore-interface[The RememberMeIdentityStore Interface]

[[the-identitystore-interface]]
The IdentityStore Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The `IdentityStore` interface defines an SPI for interacting with identity stores,
which are directories or databases containing user account information.
An implementation of the `IdentityStore` interface can validate users' credentials,
provide information about the groups they belong to, or both. Most often, an
`IdentityStore` implementation will interact with an external identity store --
an LDAP server, for example -- to perform the actual credential validation and
group lookups, but an `IdentityStore` may also manage user account data itself.

There are two built-in implementations of `IdentityStore`: an LDAP identity store,
and a Database identity store. These identity stores delegate to external stores
that must already exist; the IdentityStore implementations do not provide or
manage the external store. They are configured with the parameters necessary
to communicate with an external store using the following annotations:

* `LdapIdentityStoreDefinition` -- configures an identity store with the parameters
necessary to communicate with an external LDAP server, validate user credentials,
and/or lookup user groups.

* `DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition` -- configures an identity store with the
parameters necessary to connect to an external database, validate user credentials,
and/or lookup user groups. You must supply a PasswordHash implementation when
configuring a Database Identity Store. See link:#the-passwordhash-interface[The PasswordHash Interface].

An application can provide its own custom identity store, or use the built-in LDAP or database
identity stores. For examples of both types, see:

* link:security-api004.html#running-the-built-in-database-identity-store-example[Running the Built-In Database Identity Store Example]

* link:security-api005.html#running-the-custom-identity-store-example[Running the Custom Identity Store Example]

An implementation of `IdentityStore` must be a
CDI bean to be recognized and deployed at runtime, and is assumed to be normal scoped.
IdentityStores are primarily intended for use by implementations of
`HttpAuthenticationMechanisms`, but this is not a requirement.
They can be used by other types of authentication mechanisms as well, or by containers.

Multiple implementations of `IdentityStore` may be present. If so, they are invoked
under the control of an `IdentityStoreHandler`.

[[identitystorehandler]]
IdentityStoreHandler
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Authentication mechanisms do not interact with `IdentityStore` directly; instead,
they call an `IdentityStoreHandler`. An implementation of the `IdentityStoreHandler`
interface provides a single method, `validate(Credential)`, which, when invoked,
iterates over the available IdentityStores and returns an aggregated result.
An `IdentityStoreHandler` must also be a CDI bean, and is assumed to be normal scoped.
At runtime, an authentication mechanism injects the `IdentityStoreHandler` and
invokes on it. The `IdentityStoreHandler`, in turn, looks up the available IdentityStores
and invokes on them to determine the aggregate result.

There is a built-in `IdentityStoreHandler` that implements a standard algorithm
defined by Jakarta Security. The Jakarta Security specification provides a full description of
the algorithm, but it can be roughly summarized as follows:

* Iterate over the available validating IdentityStores, in priority order,
until the provided Credential is validated or there are no more IdentityStores.

* If the Credential was validated, iterate over the available group-providing
IdentityStores, in priority order, aggregating the groups returned by each store.

* Return the validated caller and group information.

An application may also supply its own `IdentityStoreHandler`, which can use any
desired algorithm to select and invoke on IdentityStores, and return an
aggregated (or non-aggregated) result.

[[identitystoreinterface-methods]]
IdentityStore Interface Methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The IdentityStore interface itself has four methods:

* `validate(Credential)` -- validate a Credential, and return the result of that
validation.

* `getCallerGroups(CredentialValidationResult)` -- return the groups associated
with the caller indicated by the supplied `CredentialValidationResult`, which
represents the result of a previous, successful validation.

* `validationTypes()` -- returns a Set of validation types (one or more of
`VALIDATE`, `PROVIDE_GROUPS`)
that indicate the operations supported by this instance of the `IdentityStore`.

* `priority()` -- returns a positive integer representing the self-declared
priority of this IdentityStore. Lower values represent higher priority.

Because `getCallerGroups()` is a sensitive operation -- it can return information
about arbitrary users, and does not require that the caller provide the user's
credential or proof of identity -- the caller should have the
`IdentityStorePermission("getGroups")` permission. Enforcement of this check is
incumbent on the implementation of the `getCallerGroups()` method; the built-in
IdentityStores do check for this permission, if a SecurityManager is configured,
and the built-in IdentityStoreHandler invokes the `getCallerGroups()` method in
the context of a `PrivilegedAction` block.

[[the-passwordhash-interface]]
The PasswordHash Interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unlike some types of identity stores, for example LDAP directories,
databases can store and retrieve user passwords, but can't verify them natively.
Therefore, the built-in Database identity store must verify user passwords itself.
Most often, this involves generating a hash of the user's password for comparison
with a hash value stored in the database.

In order to provide maximum flexibility and interoperability, the Database identity
store does not implement any specific password hashing algorithms. Instead, it
defines the `PasswordHash` interface, and expects the application to provide an
implementation of `PasswordHash` that can verify passwords from the specific store
the application will use. The `PasswordHash` implementation must be made available
as a dependent-scoped bean, and is configured by providing the fully-qualified
name of the desired type as the `hashAlgorithm` value on a `DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition`.

The `PasswordHash` algorithm defines three methods:

* `initialize(Map<String,String> parameters)` -- initialize the PasswordHash with
the supplied Map of parameters. The Database identity store calls this method when
initializing, passing the `hashAlgorithmParameters` value of the
`DatabaseIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation (after conversion to a Map).

* `verify(char[] password, String hashedPassword)` -- verify a caller-supplied
password against the caller's stored password hash as retrieved from the database.
The `hashedPassword` value should be provided exactly as it was returned from the database.

* `generate(char[] password)` -- generate a password hash from the supplied password.
The value returned should be formatted and encoded exactly it would be stored
in the database. While it is useful to generate the hash of a caller-supplied password
during `verify()`, this method is intended primarily for use by applications or
`IdentityStore` implementations that want to support password management/reset
capability without having to duplicate the code used to verify passwords.

Note that, while the interface is oriented toward hashing passwords, it can also
support alternative approaches, such as two-way encryption of stored passwords.

There is a built-in `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` implementation that supports, as it's
name suggests, PBKDF2 password hashing. It supports several parameters that
control the generation of hash values
(key size, iterations, and so on -- see the Javadoc),
and those parameters are encoded into the resulting hash value, so that hashes
can be verified even if the currently configured parameters are different from
the parameters in effect when a stored hash was generated.

While it is necessary to write a custom `PasswordHash` to enable interoperability
with a legacy identity store that stores password hashes in a format other
than the `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` format, developers should consider carefully
whether `Pbkdf2PasswordHash` is sufficient for new identity stores, and avoid
writing a new PasswordHash implementation without a solid understanding of the
cryptographic and other security considerations involved. Some of the
considerations specific to password hashing are:

* The requirements for hashing passwords differ considerably from the requirements
for hashing in other contexts. In particular, speed is normally a virtue when
generating hashes, but when generating password hashes, slower is better -- to
slow down brute force attacks against hashed values.

* The comparison of a generated hash with a stored hash should take constant time,
whether it succeeds or fails, in order to avoid giving an attacker clues about
the password value based on the timing of failed attempts.

* A new random salt should be used each time a new password hash value is generated.

[[the-remembermeidentitystore-interface]]
The RememberMeIdentityStore Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The `RememberMeIdentityStore` interface represents a special type of identity store.
It is not directly related to the `IdentityStore` interface; that is, it does not
implement or extend it. It does, however, perform a similar, albeit specialized, function.

In some cases, an application wants to "remember" a user's authenticated session
for an extended period. For example, a web site may remember you when you visit,
and prompt for your password only periodically, perhaps once every two weeks,
as long as you don't explicitly log out.

RememberMe works as follows:

* When a request from an unauthenicated user is received, the user is authenticated
using an `HttpAuthenticationMechanism` that is provided by the application
(this is required -- `RememberMeIdentityStore` can only be used in conjunction with an
  application-supplied `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`).

* After authentication, the configured `RememberMeIdentityStore` saves information
about the user's authenticated identity, so that it be restored later, and
generates a long-lived "remember me" login token that is sent back to the client,
perhaps as a cookie.

* On a subsequent visit to the application, the client presents the login token.
The `RememberMeIdentityStore` then validates the token and returns the stored user
identity, which is then established as the user's authenticated identity.
If the token is invalid or expired, it is discarded, the user is authenticated
normally again, and a new login token is generated.

The `RememberMeIdentityStore` interface defines the following methods:

* `generateLoginToken(CallerPrincipal caller, Set<String> groups)` -- generate a
login token for a newly authenticated user, and associate it with the provided
caller/group information.

* `removeLoginToken(String token)` -- remove the (presumably expired or invalid)
login token and any associated caller/group information.

* `validate(RememberMeCredential credential)` -- validate the supplied credential, and,
if valid, return the associated caller/group information. (`RememberMeCredential` is
  essentially just a holder for a login token).

An implementation of `RememberMeIdentityStore` must be a CDI bean, and is assumed
to be normal scoped. It is configured by adding a `RememberMe` annotation to an
application's `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`, which indicates that a
`RememberMeIdentityStore` is in use, and provides related configuration parameters.
A container-supplied interceptor then intercepts calls to the `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`,
invokes the `RememberMeIdentityStore` as necessary before and after calls to the
authentication mechanism, and ensures that the user's identity is correctly
set for the session. The Jakarta Security specification provides a detailed description
of the required interceptor behavior.

Implementations of `RememberMeIdentityStore` should take care to manage tokens
and user identity information securely. For example, login tokens should not
contain sensitive user information, like credentials or sensitive attributes,
to avoid exposing that information if an attacker were able to gain access
to the token -- even an encrypted token is potentially vulnerable to an
attacker with sufficient time/resources. Similarly, tokens should be
encrypted/signed wherever possible, and sent only over secure channels (HTTPS).
User identity information managed by a `RememberMeIdentityStore` should be stored
as securely as possible (but does not necessarily need to be reliably persisted --
the only impact of a "forgotten" session is that the user will be prompted to
log in again).
