src/main/jbake/content/security-webtier001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Overview of Web Application Security
next=security-webtier002.html
prev=security-webtier.html
~~~~~~
= Overview of Web Application Security

[[BNCAT]][[overview-of-web-application-security]]

Overview of Web Application Security
------------------------------------

A web application is accessed using a web browser over a network, such
as the Internet or a company's intranet. As discussed in
link:overview004.html#BNAAY[Distributed Multitiered Applications], the
Java EE platform uses a distributed multitiered application model, and
web applications run in the web tier.

Web applications contain resources that can be accessed by many users.
These resources often traverse unprotected, open networks, such as the
Internet. In such an environment, a substantial number of web
applications will require some type of security.

Securing applications and their clients in the business tier and the EIS
tier is discussed in link:security-javaee.html#BNBYK[Chapter 52, "Getting
Started Securing Enterprise Applications"].

In the Java EE platform, web components provide the dynamic extension
capabilities for a web server. Web components can be Java servlets or
JavaServer Faces pages.

Certain aspects of web application security can be configured when the
application is installed, or deployed, to the web container. Annotations
and/or deployment descriptors are used to relay information to the
deployer about security and other aspects of the application. Specifying
this information in annotations or in the deployment descriptor helps
the deployer set up the appropriate security policy for the web
application. Any values explicitly specified in the deployment
descriptor override any values specified in annotations.

Security for Java EE web applications can be implemented in the
following ways.

* Declarative security can be implemented using either metadata
annotations or an application's deployment descriptor. See
link:security-intro001.html#BNBWK[Overview of Java EE Security] for more
information.
+
Declarative security for web applications is described in
link:security-webtier002.html#GKBAA[Securing Web Applications].
* Programmatic security is embedded in an application and can be used to
make security decisions when declarative security alone is not
sufficient to express the security model of an application. Declarative
security alone may not be sufficient when conditional login in a
particular work flow, instead of for all cases, is required in the
middle of an application. See link:security-intro001.html#BNBWK[Overview
of Java EE Security] for more information.
+
Servlet 4.0 provides the `authenticate`, `login`, and `logout` methods
of the `HttpServletRequest` interface. With the addition of the
`authenticate`, `login`, and `logout` methods to the Servlet
specification, an application deployment descriptor is no longer
required for web applications but may still be used to further specify
security requirements beyond the basic default values.
+
Programmatic security is discussed in
link:security-webtier003.html#GJIIE[Using Programmatic Security with Web
Applications].
* Message security works with web services and incorporates security
features, such as digital signatures and encryption, into the header of
a SOAP message, working in the application layer, ensuring end-to-end
security. Message security is not a component of Java EE and is
mentioned here for informational purposes only.

Some of the material in this chapter builds on material presented
earlier in this tutorial. In particular, this chapter assumes that you
are familiar with the information in the following chapters:

* link:webapp.html#BNADR[Chapter 6, "Getting Started with Web
Applications"]
* link:jsf-intro.html#BNAPH[Chapter 7, "JavaServer Faces Technology"]
* link:servlets.html#BNAFD[Chapter 18, "Java Servlet Technology"]
* link:security-intro.html#BNBWJ[Chapter 50, "Introduction to Security in
the Java EE Platform"]

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/security-webtier001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Overview of Web Application Security
next=security-webtier002.html
prev=security-webtier.html
~~~~~~
= Overview of Web Application Security

[[BNCAT]][[overview-of-web-application-security]]

Overview of Web Application Security
------------------------------------

A web application is accessed using a web browser over a network, such
as the Internet or a company's intranet. As discussed in
link:overview004.html#BNAAY[Distributed Multitiered Applications], the
Jakarta EE platform uses a distributed multitiered application model, and
web applications run in the web tier.

Web applications contain resources that can be accessed by many users.
These resources often traverse unprotected, open networks, such as the
Internet. In such an environment, a substantial number of web
applications will require some type of security.

Securing applications and their clients in the business tier and the EIS
tier is discussed in link:security-jakartaee.html#BNBYK[Chapter 52, "Getting
Started Securing Enterprise Applications"].

In the Jakarta EE platform, web components provide the dynamic extension
capabilities for a web server. Web components can be Java servlets or
JavaServer Faces pages.

Certain aspects of web application security can be configured when the
application is installed, or deployed, to the web container. Annotations
and/or deployment descriptors are used to relay information to the
deployer about security and other aspects of the application. Specifying
this information in annotations or in the deployment descriptor helps
the deployer set up the appropriate security policy for the web
application. Any values explicitly specified in the deployment
descriptor override any values specified in annotations.

Security for Jakarta EE web applications can be implemented in the
following ways.

* Declarative security can be implemented using either metadata
annotations or an application's deployment descriptor. See
link:security-intro001.html#BNBWK[Overview of Jakarta EE Security] for more
information.
+
Declarative security for web applications is described in
link:security-webtier002.html#GKBAA[Securing Web Applications].
* Programmatic security is embedded in an application and can be used to
make security decisions when declarative security alone is not
sufficient to express the security model of an application. Declarative
security alone may not be sufficient when conditional login in a
particular work flow, instead of for all cases, is required in the
middle of an application. See link:security-intro001.html#BNBWK[Overview
of Jakarta EE Security] for more information.
+
Servlet 4.0 provides the `authenticate`, `login`, and `logout` methods
of the `HttpServletRequest` interface. With the addition of the
`authenticate`, `login`, and `logout` methods to the Servlet
specification, an application deployment descriptor is no longer
required for web applications but may still be used to further specify
security requirements beyond the basic default values.
+
Programmatic security is discussed in
link:security-webtier003.html#GJIIE[Using Programmatic Security with Web
Applications].
* Message security works with web services and incorporates security
features, such as digital signatures and encryption, into the header of
a SOAP message, working in the application layer, ensuring end-to-end
security. Message security is not a component of Jakarta EE and is
mentioned here for informational purposes only.

Some of the material in this chapter builds on material presented
earlier in this tutorial. In particular, this chapter assumes that you
are familiar with the information in the following chapters:

* link:webapp.html#BNADR[Chapter 6, "Getting Started with Web
Applications"]
* link:jsf-intro.html#BNAPH[Chapter 7, "JavaServer Faces Technology"]
* link:servlets.html#BNAFD[Chapter 18, "Java Servlet Technology"]
* link:security-intro.html#BNBWJ[Chapter 50, "Introduction to Security in
the Jakarta EE Platform"]
