src/main/jbake/content/security-intro002.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Security Mechanisms
next=security-intro003.html
prev=security-intro001.html
~~~~~~
= Security Mechanisms

[[BNBWY]][[security-mechanisms]]

Security Mechanisms
-------------------

The characteristics of an application should be considered when deciding
the layer and type of security to be provided for applications. The
following sections discuss the characteristics of the common mechanisms
that can be used to secure Java EE applications. Each of these
mechanisms can be used individually or with others to provide protection
layers based on the specific needs of your implementation.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNBWZ[Java SE Security Mechanisms]
* link:#BNBXA[Java EE Security Mechanisms]

[[BNBWZ]][[java-se-security-mechanisms]]

Java SE Security Mechanisms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Java SE provides support for a variety of security features and
mechanisms.

* Java Authentication and Authorization Service (JAAS) is a set of APIs
that enable services to authenticate and enforce access controls upon
users. JAAS provides a pluggable and extensible framework for
programmatic user authentication and authorization. JAAS is a core Java
SE API and is an underlying technology for Java EE security mechanisms.
* Java Generic Security Services (Java GSS-API) is a token-based API
used to securely exchange messages between communicating applications.
The GSS-API offers application programmers uniform access to security
services atop a variety of underlying security mechanisms, including
Kerberos.
* Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provides a framework and
implementations for encryption, key generation and key agreement, and
Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithms. Support for encryption
includes symmetric, asymmetric, block, and stream ciphers. Block ciphers
operate on groups of bytes; stream ciphers operate on one byte at a
time. The software also supports secure streams and sealed objects.
* Java Secure Sockets Extension (JSSE) provides a framework and an
implementation for a Java version of the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and
Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols and includes functionality for
data encryption, server authentication, message integrity, and optional
client authentication to enable secure Internet communications.
* Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) is an Internet
standard (RFC 2222) that specifies a protocol for authentication and
optional establishment of a security layer between client and server
applications. SASL defines how authentication data is to be exchanged
but does not itself specify the contents of that data. SASL is a
framework into which specific authentication mechanisms that specify the
contents and semantics of the authentication data can fit.

Java SE also provides a set of tools for managing keystores,
certificates, and policy files; generating and verifying JAR signatures;
and obtaining, listing, and managing Kerberos tickets.

For more information on Java SE security, visit
`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/`.

[[BNBXA]][[java-ee-security-mechanisms]]

Java EE Security Mechanisms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Java EE security services are provided by the component container and
can be implemented by using declarative or programmatic techniques (see
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXE[Securing Containers]). Java EE security
services provide a robust and easily configured security mechanism for
authenticating users and authorizing access to application functions and
associated data at many different layers. Java EE security services are
separate from the security mechanisms of the operating system.

[[BNBXB]][[application-layer-security]]

Application-Layer Security
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In Java EE, component containers are responsible for providing
application-layer security, security services for a specific application
type tailored to the needs of the application. At the application layer,
application firewalls can be used to enhance application protection by
protecting the communication stream and all associated application
resources from attacks.

Java EE security is easy to implement and configure and can offer
fine-grained access control to application functions and data. However,
as is inherent to security applied at the application layer, security
properties are not transferable to applications running in other
environments and protect data only while it is residing in the
application environment. In the context of a traditional enterprise
application, this is not necessarily a problem, but when applied to a
web services application, in which data often travels across several
intermediaries, you would need to use the Java EE security mechanisms
along with transport-layer security and message-layer security for a
complete security solution.

The advantages of using application-layer security include the
following.

* Security is uniquely suited to the needs of the application.
* Security is fine grained, with application-specific settings.

The disadvantages of using application-layer security include the
following.

* The application is dependent on security attributes that are not
transferable between application types.
* Support for multiple protocols makes this type of security vulnerable.
* Data is close to or contained within the point of vulnerability.

For more information on providing security at the application layer, see
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXE[Securing Containers].

[[BNBXC]][[transport-layer-security]]

Transport-Layer Security
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Transport-layer security is provided by the transport mechanisms used to
transmit information over the wire between clients and providers; thus,
transport-layer security relies on secure HTTP transport (HTTPS) using
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). Transport security is a point-to-point
security mechanism that can be used for authentication, message
integrity, and confidentiality. When running over an SSL-protected
session, the server and client can authenticate each other and negotiate
an encryption algorithm and cryptographic keys before the application
protocol transmits or receives its first byte of data. Security is
active from the time the data leaves the client until it arrives at its
destination, or vice versa, even across intermediaries. The problem is
that the data is not protected once it gets to the destination. One
solution is to encrypt the message before sending.

Transport-layer security is performed in a series of phases, as follows.

* The client and server agree on an appropriate algorithm.
* A key is exchanged using public-key encryption and certificate-based
authentication.
* A symmetric cipher is used during the information exchange.

Digital certificates are necessary when running HTTPS using SSL. The
HTTPS service of most web servers will not run unless a digital
certificate has been installed. Digital certificates have already been
created for GlassFish Server.

The advantages of using transport-layer security include the following.

* It is relatively simple, well-understood, standard technology.
* It applies to both a message body and its attachments.

The disadvantages of using transport-layer security include the
following.

* It is tightly coupled with the transport-layer protocol.
* It represents an all-or-nothing approach to security. This implies
that the security mechanism is unaware of message contents, so that you
cannot selectively apply security to portions of the message as you can
with message-layer security.
* Protection is transient. The message is protected only while in
transit. Protection is removed automatically by the endpoint when it
receives the message.
* It is not an end-to-end solution, simply point-to-point.

For more information on transport-layer security, see
link:security-intro006.html#BNBXW[Establishing a Secure Connection Using
SSL].

[[BNBXD]][[message-layer-security]]

Message-Layer Security
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In message-layer security, security information is contained within the
SOAP message and/or SOAP message attachment, which allows security
information to travel along with the message or attachment. For example,
a portion of the message may be signed by a sender and encrypted for a
particular receiver. When sent from the initial sender, the message may
pass through intermediate nodes before reaching its intended receiver.
In this scenario, the encrypted portions continue to be opaque to any
intermediate nodes and can be decrypted only by the intended receiver.
For this reason, message-layer security is also sometimes referred to as
end-to-end security.

The advantages of message-layer security include the following.

* Security stays with the message over all hops and after the message
arrives at its destination.
* Security can be selectively applied to different portions of a message
and, if using XML Web Services Security, to attachments.
* Message security can be used with intermediaries over multiple hops.
* Message security is independent of the application environment or
transport protocol.

The disadvantage of using message-layer security is that it is
relatively complex and adds some overhead to processing.

GlassFish Server supports message security using Metro, a web services
stack that uses Web Services Security (WSS) to secure messages. Because
this message security is specific to Metro and is not a part of the Java
EE platform, this tutorial does not discuss using WSS to secure
messages. See the Metro User's Guide at `https://javaee.github.io/metro/`.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/security-intro002.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Security Mechanisms
next=security-intro003.html
prev=security-intro001.html
~~~~~~
= Security Mechanisms

[[BNBWY]][[security-mechanisms]]

Security Mechanisms
-------------------

The characteristics of an application should be considered when deciding
the layer and type of security to be provided for applications. The
following sections discuss the characteristics of the common mechanisms
that can be used to secure Jakarta EE applications. Each of these
mechanisms can be used individually or with others to provide protection
layers based on the specific needs of your implementation.

The following topics are addressed here:

* link:#BNBWZ[Java SE Security Mechanisms]
* link:#BNBXA[Jakarta EE Security Mechanisms]

[[BNBWZ]][[java-se-security-mechanisms]]

Java SE Security Mechanisms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Java SE provides support for a variety of security features and
mechanisms.

* Java Authentication and Authorization Service (JAAS) is a set of APIs
that enable services to authenticate and enforce access controls upon
users. JAAS provides a pluggable and extensible framework for
programmatic user authentication and authorization. JAAS is a core Java
SE API and is an underlying technology for Jakarta EE security mechanisms.
* Java Generic Security Services (Java GSS-API) is a token-based API
used to securely exchange messages between communicating applications.
The GSS-API offers application programmers uniform access to security
services atop a variety of underlying security mechanisms, including
Kerberos.
* Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provides a framework and
implementations for encryption, key generation and key agreement, and
Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithms. Support for encryption
includes symmetric, asymmetric, block, and stream ciphers. Block ciphers
operate on groups of bytes; stream ciphers operate on one byte at a
time. The software also supports secure streams and sealed objects.
* Java Secure Sockets Extension (JSSE) provides a framework and an
implementation for a Java version of the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and
Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols and includes functionality for
data encryption, server authentication, message integrity, and optional
client authentication to enable secure Internet communications.
* Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) is an Internet
standard (RFC 2222) that specifies a protocol for authentication and
optional establishment of a security layer between client and server
applications. SASL defines how authentication data is to be exchanged
but does not itself specify the contents of that data. SASL is a
framework into which specific authentication mechanisms that specify the
contents and semantics of the authentication data can fit.

Java SE also provides a set of tools for managing keystores,
certificates, and policy files; generating and verifying JAR signatures;
and obtaining, listing, and managing Kerberos tickets.

For more information on Java SE security, visit
`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/`.

[[BNBXA]][[java-ee-security-mechanisms]]

Jakarta EE Security Mechanisms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Jakarta EE security services are provided by the component container and
can be implemented by using declarative or programmatic techniques (see
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXE[Securing Containers]). Jakarta EE security
services provide a robust and easily configured security mechanism for
authenticating users and authorizing access to application functions and
associated data at many different layers. Jakarta EE security services are
separate from the security mechanisms of the operating system.

[[BNBXB]][[application-layer-security]]

Application-Layer Security
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In Jakarta EE, component containers are responsible for providing
application-layer security, security services for a specific application
type tailored to the needs of the application. At the application layer,
application firewalls can be used to enhance application protection by
protecting the communication stream and all associated application
resources from attacks.

Jakarta EE security is easy to implement and configure and can offer
fine-grained access control to application functions and data. However,
as is inherent to security applied at the application layer, security
properties are not transferable to applications running in other
environments and protect data only while it is residing in the
application environment. In the context of a traditional enterprise
application, this is not necessarily a problem, but when applied to a
web services application, in which data often travels across several
intermediaries, you would need to use the Jakarta EE security mechanisms
along with transport-layer security and message-layer security for a
complete security solution.

The advantages of using application-layer security include the
following.

* Security is uniquely suited to the needs of the application.
* Security is fine grained, with application-specific settings.

The disadvantages of using application-layer security include the
following.

* The application is dependent on security attributes that are not
transferable between application types.
* Support for multiple protocols makes this type of security vulnerable.
* Data is close to or contained within the point of vulnerability.

For more information on providing security at the application layer, see
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXE[Securing Containers].

[[BNBXC]][[transport-layer-security]]

Transport-Layer Security
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Transport-layer security is provided by the transport mechanisms used to
transmit information over the wire between clients and providers; thus,
transport-layer security relies on secure HTTP transport (HTTPS) using
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). Transport security is a point-to-point
security mechanism that can be used for authentication, message
integrity, and confidentiality. When running over an SSL-protected
session, the server and client can authenticate each other and negotiate
an encryption algorithm and cryptographic keys before the application
protocol transmits or receives its first byte of data. Security is
active from the time the data leaves the client until it arrives at its
destination, or vice versa, even across intermediaries. The problem is
that the data is not protected once it gets to the destination. One
solution is to encrypt the message before sending.

Transport-layer security is performed in a series of phases, as follows.

* The client and server agree on an appropriate algorithm.
* A key is exchanged using public-key encryption and certificate-based
authentication.
* A symmetric cipher is used during the information exchange.

Digital certificates are necessary when running HTTPS using SSL. The
HTTPS service of most web servers will not run unless a digital
certificate has been installed. Digital certificates have already been
created for GlassFish Server.

The advantages of using transport-layer security include the following.

* It is relatively simple, well-understood, standard technology.
* It applies to both a message body and its attachments.

The disadvantages of using transport-layer security include the
following.

* It is tightly coupled with the transport-layer protocol.
* It represents an all-or-nothing approach to security. This implies
that the security mechanism is unaware of message contents, so that you
cannot selectively apply security to portions of the message as you can
with message-layer security.
* Protection is transient. The message is protected only while in
transit. Protection is removed automatically by the endpoint when it
receives the message.
* It is not an end-to-end solution, simply point-to-point.

For more information on transport-layer security, see
link:security-intro006.html#BNBXW[Establishing a Secure Connection Using
SSL].

[[BNBXD]][[message-layer-security]]

Message-Layer Security
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In message-layer security, security information is contained within the
SOAP message and/or SOAP message attachment, which allows security
information to travel along with the message or attachment. For example,
a portion of the message may be signed by a sender and encrypted for a
particular receiver. When sent from the initial sender, the message may
pass through intermediate nodes before reaching its intended receiver.
In this scenario, the encrypted portions continue to be opaque to any
intermediate nodes and can be decrypted only by the intended receiver.
For this reason, message-layer security is also sometimes referred to as
end-to-end security.

The advantages of message-layer security include the following.

* Security stays with the message over all hops and after the message
arrives at its destination.
* Security can be selectively applied to different portions of a message
and, if using XML Web Services Security, to attachments.
* Message security can be used with intermediaries over multiple hops.
* Message security is independent of the application environment or
transport protocol.

The disadvantage of using message-layer security is that it is
relatively complex and adds some overhead to processing.

GlassFish Server supports message security using Metro, a web services
stack that uses Web Services Security (WSS) to secure messages. Because
this message security is specific to Metro and is not a part of the Java
EE platform, this tutorial does not discuss using WSS to secure
messages. See the Metro User's Guide at `https://javaee.github.io/metro/`.
