src/main/jbake/content/security-intro001.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Overview of Java EE Security
next=security-intro002.html
prev=security-intro.html
~~~~~~
= Overview of Java EE Security

[[BNBWK]][[overview-of-java-ee-security]]

Overview of Java EE Security
----------------------------

Every enterprise that has either sensitive resources that can be
accessed by many users or resources that traverse unprotected, open
networks, such as the Internet, needs to be protected.

Enterprise tier and web tier applications are made up of components that
are deployed into various containers. These components are combined to
build a multitier enterprise application. Security for components is
provided by their containers. A container provides two kinds of
security: declarative and programmatic.

* Declarative security expresses an application component's security
requirements by using either deployment descriptors or annotations.
+
A deployment descriptor is an XML file that is external to the
application and that expresses an application's security structure,
including security roles, access control, and authentication
requirements. For more information about deployment descriptors, read
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXF[Using Deployment Descriptors for
Declarative Security].
+
Annotations, also called metadata, are used to specify information about
security within a class file. When the application is deployed, this
information can be either used by or overridden by the application
deployment descriptor. Annotations save you from having to write
declarative information inside XML descriptors. Instead, you simply put
annotations on the code, and the required information gets generated.
For this tutorial, annotations are used for securing applications
wherever possible. For more information about annotations, see
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXG[Using Annotations to Specify Security
Information].
* Programmatic security is embedded in an application and is used to
make security decisions. Programmatic security is useful when
declarative security alone is not sufficient to express the security
model of an application. For more information about programmatic
security, read link:security-intro003.html#BNBXH[Using Programmatic
Security].

Java EE 8 includes a Security API specification that defines portable,
plug-in interfaces for authentication and identity stores, and a new
injectable-type SecurityContext interface that provides an access point for
programmatic security. You can use the built-in implementations of these APIs,
or define custom implementations.

More information on these concepts and mechanismsMore information on these concepts
and mechanisms can be found in the chapter on security in the Java EE 8
specification.

Other chapters in this Part discuss security requirements in web tier
and enterprise tier applications, and the Java EE Security API.

* link:security-webtier.html#BNCAS[Chapter 51, "Getting Started Securing
Web Applications"] explains how to add security to web components, such
as servlets.
* link:security-javaee.html#BNBYK[Chapter 52, "Getting Started Securing
Enterprise Applications"] explains how to add security to Java EE
components, such as enterprise beans and application clients.
* link:security-api.html#using-the-java-ee-security-api[53 Using the Java EE Security API]
describes the authentication and credential validation funtionality provided by
the Java EE security API, and provides examples.

[[BNBWL]][[a-simple-application-security-walkthrough]]

A Simple Application Security Walkthrough
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The security behavior of a Java EE environment may be better understood
by examining what happens in a simple application with a web client, a
user interface, and enterprise bean business logic.

In the following example, which is taken from the Java EE
Specification, the web client relies on the web server to act as its
authentication proxy by collecting user authentication data from the
client and using it to establish an authenticated session.

[[BNBWM]][[step-1-initial-request]]

Step 1: Initial Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the first step of this example, the web client requests the main
application URL. This action is shown in link:#BNBWN[Figure 50-1].

[[BNBWN]]

.*Figure 50-1 Initial Request*
image:img/javaeett_dt_039.png[
"Diagram of initial request from web client to web server for access to a
protected resource"]

Since the client has not yet authenticated itself to the application
environment, the server responsible for delivering the web portion of
the application, hereafter referred to as the web server, detects this
and invokes the appropriate authentication mechanism for this resource.
For more information on these mechanisms, see
link:security-intro002.html#BNBWY[Security Mechanisms].

[[BNBWO]][[step-2-initial-authentication]]

Step 2: Initial Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The web server returns a form that the web client uses to collect
authentication data, such as user name and password, from the user. The
web client forwards the authentication data to the web server, where it
is validated by the web server, as shown in link:#BNBWP[Figure 50-2].
The validation mechanism may be local to a server or may leverage the
underlying security services. On the basis of the validation, the web
server sets a credential for the user.

[[BNBWP]]

.*Figure 50-2 Initial Authentication*
image:img/javaeett_dt_040.png[
"Diagram of initial authentication: server sends form to client, which
sends authentication data to server for validation"]

[[BNBWQ]][[step-3-url-authorization]]

Step 3: URL Authorization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The credential is used for future determinations of whether the user is
authorized to access restricted resources it may request. The web server
consults the security policy associated with the web resource to
determine the security roles that are permitted access to the resource.
The security policy is derived from annotations or from the deployment
descriptor. The web container then tests the user's credential against
each role to determine whether it can map the user to the role.
link:#BNBWR[Figure 50-3] shows this process.

[[BNBWR]]

.*Figure 50-3 URL Authorization*
image:img/javaeett_dt_041.png[
"Diagram of URL authorization"]

The web server's evaluation stops with an "is authorized" outcome when
the web server is able to map the user to a role. A "not authorized"
outcome is reached if the web server is unable to map the user to any of
the permitted roles.

[[BNBWS]][[step-4-fulfilling-the-original-request]]

Step 4: Fulfilling the Original Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the user is authorized, the web server returns the result of the
original URL request, as shown in link:#BNBWT[Figure 50-4].

[[BNBWT]]

.*Figure 50-4 Fulfilling the Original Request*
image:img/javaeett_dt_042.png[
"Diagram of request fulfillment, showing server returning result to
client"]

In our example, the response URL of a web page is returned, enabling the
user to post form data that needs to be handled by the business-logic
component of the application. See
link:security-webtier.html#BNCAS[Chapter 51, "Getting Started Securing
Web Applications"] for more information on protecting web applications.

[[BNBWU]][[step-5-invoking-enterprise-bean-business-methods]]

Step 5: Invoking Enterprise Bean Business Methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The web page performs the remote method call to the enterprise bean,
using the user's credential to establish a secure association between
the web page and the enterprise bean, as shown in link:#BNBWV[Figure
50-5]. The association is implemented as two related security contexts:
one in the web server and one in the EJB container.

[[BNBWV]]

.*Figure 50-5 Invoking an Enterprise Bean Business Method*
image:img/javaeett_dt_043.png[
"Diagram of authorization process between web component and enterprise
bean"]

The EJB container is responsible for enforcing access control on the
enterprise bean method. The container consults the security policy
associated with the enterprise bean to determine the security roles that
are permitted access to the method. The security policy is derived from
annotations or from the deployment descriptor. For each role, the EJB
container determines whether it can map the caller to the role by using
the security context associated with the call.

The container's evaluation stops with an "is authorized" outcome when
the container is able to map the caller's credential to a role. A "not
authorized" outcome is reached if the container is unable to map the
caller to any of the permitted roles. A "not authorized" result causes
an exception to be thrown by the container and propagated back to the
calling web page.

If the call is authorized, the container dispatches control to the
enterprise bean method. The result of the bean's execution of the call
is returned to the web page and ultimately to the user by the web server
and the web client.

[[BNBWW]][[features-of-a-security-mechanism]]

Features of a Security Mechanism
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A properly implemented security mechanism will provide the following
functionality:

* Prevent unauthorized access to application functions and business or
personal data (authentication)
* Hold system users accountable for operations they perform
(non-repudiation)
* Protect a system from service interruptions and other breaches that
affect quality of service

Ideally, properly implemented security mechanisms will also be

* Easy to administer
* Transparent to system users
* Interoperable across application and enterprise boundaries

[[BNBWX]][[characteristics-of-application-security]]

Characteristics of Application Security
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Java EE applications consist of components that can contain both
protected and unprotected resources. Often, you need to protect
resources to ensure that only authorized users have access.
Authorization provides controlled access to protected resources.
Authorization is based on identification and authentication.
Identification is a process that enables recognition of an entity by a
system, and authentication is a process that verifies the identity of a
user, device, or other entity in a computer system, usually as a
prerequisite to allowing access to resources in a system.

Authorization and authentication are not required for an entity to
access unprotected resources. Accessing a resource without
authentication is referred to as unauthenticated, or anonymous, access.

The characteristics of application security that, when properly
addressed, help to minimize the security threats faced by an enterprise
include the following.

* Authentication: The means by which communicating entities, such as
client and server, prove to each other that they are acting on behalf of
specific identities that are authorized for access. This ensures that
users are who they say they are.
* Authorization, or access control: The means by which interactions with
resources are limited to collections of users or programs for the
purpose of enforcing integrity, confidentiality, or availability
constraints. This ensures that users have permission to perform
operations or access data.
* Data integrity: The means used to prove that information has not been
modified by a third party, an entity other than the source of the
information. For example, a recipient of data sent over an open network
must be able to detect and discard messages that were modified after
they were sent. This ensures that only authorized users can modify data.
* Confidentiality, or data privacy: The means used to ensure that
information is made available only to users who are authorized to access
it. This ensures that only authorized users can view sensitive data.
* Non-repudiation: The means used to prove that a user who performed
some action cannot reasonably deny having done so. This ensures that
transactions can be proved to have happened.
* Quality of Service: The means used to provide better service to
selected network traffic over various technologies.
* Auditing: The means used to capture a tamper-resistant record of
security-related events for the purpose of being able to evaluate the
effectiveness of security policies and mechanisms. To enable this, the
system maintains a record of transactions and security information.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/security-intro001.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Overview of Jakarta EE Security
next=security-intro002.html
prev=security-intro.html
~~~~~~
= Overview of Jakarta EE Security

[[BNBWK]][[overview-of-java-ee-security]]

Overview of Jakarta EE Security
-------------------------------

Every enterprise that has either sensitive resources that can be
accessed by many users or resources that traverse unprotected, open
networks, such as the Internet, needs to be protected.

Enterprise tier and web tier applications are made up of components that
are deployed into various containers. These components are combined to
build a multitier enterprise application. Security for components is
provided by their containers. A container provides two kinds of
security: declarative and programmatic.

* Declarative security expresses an application component's security
requirements by using either deployment descriptors or annotations.
+
A deployment descriptor is an XML file that is external to the
application and that expresses an application's security structure,
including security roles, access control, and authentication
requirements. For more information about deployment descriptors, read
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXF[Using Deployment Descriptors for
Declarative Security].
+
Annotations, also called metadata, are used to specify information about
security within a class file. When the application is deployed, this
information can be either used by or overridden by the application
deployment descriptor. Annotations save you from having to write
declarative information inside XML descriptors. Instead, you simply put
annotations on the code, and the required information gets generated.
For this tutorial, annotations are used for securing applications
wherever possible. For more information about annotations, see
link:security-intro003.html#BNBXG[Using Annotations to Specify Security
Information].
* Programmatic security is embedded in an application and is used to
make security decisions. Programmatic security is useful when
declarative security alone is not sufficient to express the security
model of an application. For more information about programmatic
security, read link:security-intro003.html#BNBXH[Using Programmatic
Security].

Jakarta EE 8 includes a Security API specification that defines portable,
plug-in interfaces for authentication and identity stores, and a new
injectable-type SecurityContext interface that provides an access point for
programmatic security. You can use the built-in implementations of these APIs,
or define custom implementations.

More information on these concepts and mechanismsMore information on these concepts
and mechanisms can be found in the chapter on security in the Jakarta EE 8
specification.

Other chapters in this Part discuss security requirements in web tier
and enterprise tier applications, and the Jakarta EE Security API.

* link:security-webtier.html#BNCAS[Chapter 51, "Getting Started Securing
Web Applications"] explains how to add security to web components, such
as servlets.
* link:security-jakartaee.html#BNBYK[Chapter 52, "Getting Started Securing
Enterprise Applications"] explains how to add security to Jakarta EE
components, such as enterprise beans and application clients.
* link:security-api.html#using-the-java-ee-security-api[53 Using the Jakarta EE Security API]
describes the authentication and credential validation funtionality provided by
the Jakarta EE security API, and provides examples.

[[BNBWL]][[a-simple-application-security-walkthrough]]

A Simple Application Security Walkthrough
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The security behavior of a Jakarta EE environment may be better understood
by examining what happens in a simple application with a web client, a
user interface, and enterprise bean business logic.

In the following example, which is taken from the Jakarta EE
Specification, the web client relies on the web server to act as its
authentication proxy by collecting user authentication data from the
client and using it to establish an authenticated session.

[[BNBWM]][[step-1-initial-request]]

Step 1: Initial Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the first step of this example, the web client requests the main
application URL. This action is shown in link:#BNBWN[Figure 50-1].

[[BNBWN]]

.*Figure 50-1 Initial Request*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_039.png[
"Diagram of initial request from web client to web server for access to a
protected resource"]

Since the client has not yet authenticated itself to the application
environment, the server responsible for delivering the web portion of
the application, hereafter referred to as the web server, detects this
and invokes the appropriate authentication mechanism for this resource.
For more information on these mechanisms, see
link:security-intro002.html#BNBWY[Security Mechanisms].

[[BNBWO]][[step-2-initial-authentication]]

Step 2: Initial Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The web server returns a form that the web client uses to collect
authentication data, such as user name and password, from the user. The
web client forwards the authentication data to the web server, where it
is validated by the web server, as shown in link:#BNBWP[Figure 50-2].
The validation mechanism may be local to a server or may leverage the
underlying security services. On the basis of the validation, the web
server sets a credential for the user.

[[BNBWP]]

.*Figure 50-2 Initial Authentication*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_040.png[
"Diagram of initial authentication: server sends form to client, which
sends authentication data to server for validation"]

[[BNBWQ]][[step-3-url-authorization]]

Step 3: URL Authorization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The credential is used for future determinations of whether the user is
authorized to access restricted resources it may request. The web server
consults the security policy associated with the web resource to
determine the security roles that are permitted access to the resource.
The security policy is derived from annotations or from the deployment
descriptor. The web container then tests the user's credential against
each role to determine whether it can map the user to the role.
link:#BNBWR[Figure 50-3] shows this process.

[[BNBWR]]

.*Figure 50-3 URL Authorization*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_041.png[
"Diagram of URL authorization"]

The web server's evaluation stops with an "is authorized" outcome when
the web server is able to map the user to a role. A "not authorized"
outcome is reached if the web server is unable to map the user to any of
the permitted roles.

[[BNBWS]][[step-4-fulfilling-the-original-request]]

Step 4: Fulfilling the Original Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the user is authorized, the web server returns the result of the
original URL request, as shown in link:#BNBWT[Figure 50-4].

[[BNBWT]]

.*Figure 50-4 Fulfilling the Original Request*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_042.png[
"Diagram of request fulfillment, showing server returning result to
client"]

In our example, the response URL of a web page is returned, enabling the
user to post form data that needs to be handled by the business-logic
component of the application. See
link:security-webtier.html#BNCAS[Chapter 51, "Getting Started Securing
Web Applications"] for more information on protecting web applications.

[[BNBWU]][[step-5-invoking-enterprise-bean-business-methods]]

Step 5: Invoking Enterprise Bean Business Methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The web page performs the remote method call to the enterprise bean,
using the user's credential to establish a secure association between
the web page and the enterprise bean, as shown in link:#BNBWV[Figure
50-5]. The association is implemented as two related security contexts:
one in the web server and one in the EJB container.

[[BNBWV]]

.*Figure 50-5 Invoking an Enterprise Bean Business Method*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_043.png[
"Diagram of authorization process between web component and enterprise
bean"]

The EJB container is responsible for enforcing access control on the
enterprise bean method. The container consults the security policy
associated with the enterprise bean to determine the security roles that
are permitted access to the method. The security policy is derived from
annotations or from the deployment descriptor. For each role, the EJB
container determines whether it can map the caller to the role by using
the security context associated with the call.

The container's evaluation stops with an "is authorized" outcome when
the container is able to map the caller's credential to a role. A "not
authorized" outcome is reached if the container is unable to map the
caller to any of the permitted roles. A "not authorized" result causes
an exception to be thrown by the container and propagated back to the
calling web page.

If the call is authorized, the container dispatches control to the
enterprise bean method. The result of the bean's execution of the call
is returned to the web page and ultimately to the user by the web server
and the web client.

[[BNBWW]][[features-of-a-security-mechanism]]

Features of a Security Mechanism
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A properly implemented security mechanism will provide the following
functionality:

* Prevent unauthorized access to application functions and business or
personal data (authentication)
* Hold system users accountable for operations they perform
(non-repudiation)
* Protect a system from service interruptions and other breaches that
affect quality of service

Ideally, properly implemented security mechanisms will also be

* Easy to administer
* Transparent to system users
* Interoperable across application and enterprise boundaries

[[BNBWX]][[characteristics-of-application-security]]

Characteristics of Application Security
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Jakarta EE applications consist of components that can contain both
protected and unprotected resources. Often, you need to protect
resources to ensure that only authorized users have access.
Authorization provides controlled access to protected resources.
Authorization is based on identification and authentication.
Identification is a process that enables recognition of an entity by a
system, and authentication is a process that verifies the identity of a
user, device, or other entity in a computer system, usually as a
prerequisite to allowing access to resources in a system.

Authorization and authentication are not required for an entity to
access unprotected resources. Accessing a resource without
authentication is referred to as unauthenticated, or anonymous, access.

The characteristics of application security that, when properly
addressed, help to minimize the security threats faced by an enterprise
include the following.

* Authentication: The means by which communicating entities, such as
client and server, prove to each other that they are acting on behalf of
specific identities that are authorized for access. This ensures that
users are who they say they are.
* Authorization, or access control: The means by which interactions with
resources are limited to collections of users or programs for the
purpose of enforcing integrity, confidentiality, or availability
constraints. This ensures that users have permission to perform
operations or access data.
* Data integrity: The means used to prove that information has not been
modified by a third party, an entity other than the source of the
information. For example, a recipient of data sent over an open network
must be able to detect and discard messages that were modified after
they were sent. This ensures that only authorized users can modify data.
* Confidentiality, or data privacy: The means used to ensure that
information is made available only to users who are authorized to access
it. This ensures that only authorized users can view sensitive data.
* Non-repudiation: The means used to prove that a user who performed
some action cannot reasonably deny having done so. This ensures that
transactions can be proved to have happened.
* Quality of Service: The means used to provide better service to
selected network traffic over various technologies.
* Auditing: The means used to capture a tamper-resistant record of
security-related events for the purpose of being able to evaluate the
effectiveness of security policies and mechanisms. To enable this, the
system maintains a record of transactions and security information.
