src/main/jbake/content/transactions007.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Updating Multiple Databases
next=transactions008.html
prev=transactions006.html
~~~~~~
Updating Multiple Databases
===========================

[[BNCJD]][[updating-multiple-databases]]

Updating Multiple Databases
---------------------------

The Java EE transaction manager controls all enterprise bean
transactions except for bean-managed JDBC transactions. The Java EE
transaction manager allows an enterprise bean to update multiple
databases within a transaction. link:#BNCJE[Figure 54-2] and
link:#BNCJF[Figure 54-3] show two scenarios for updating multiple
databases in a single transaction.

In link:#BNCJE[Figure 54-2], the client invokes a business method in
`Bean-A`. The business method begins a transaction, updates Database X,
updates Database Y, and invokes a business method in `Bean-B`. The
second business method updates Database Z and returns control to the
business method in `Bean-A`, which commits the transaction. All three
database updates occur in the same transaction.

In link:#BNCJF[Figure 54-3], the client calls a business method in
`Bean-A`, which begins a transaction and updates Database X. Then
`Bean-A` invokes a method in `Bean-B`, which resides in a remote Java EE
server. The method in `Bean-B` updates Database Y. The transaction
managers of the Java EE servers ensure that both databases are updated
in the same transaction.

[[BNCJE]]

.*Figure 54-2 Updating Multiple Databases*
image:img/javaeett_dt_051.png[
"A diagram showing Bean-A updating databases X and Y, and Bean-B updating
database Z."]

[[BNCJF]]

.*Figure 54-3 Updating Multiple Databases Across Java EE Servers*
image:img/javaeett_dt_052.png[
"A diagram showing Bean-A on one Java EE server updating database X, and
Bean-B on another Java EE server updating database Y."]

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/transactions007.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Updating Multiple Databases
next=transactions008.html
prev=transactions006.html
~~~~~~
Updating Multiple Databases
===========================

[[BNCJD]][[updating-multiple-databases]]

Updating Multiple Databases
---------------------------

The Jakarta EE transaction manager controls all enterprise bean
transactions except for bean-managed JDBC transactions. The Jakarta EE
transaction manager allows an enterprise bean to update multiple
databases within a transaction. link:#BNCJE[Figure 54-2] and
link:#BNCJF[Figure 54-3] show two scenarios for updating multiple
databases in a single transaction.

In link:#BNCJE[Figure 54-2], the client invokes a business method in
`Bean-A`. The business method begins a transaction, updates Database X,
updates Database Y, and invokes a business method in `Bean-B`. The
second business method updates Database Z and returns control to the
business method in `Bean-A`, which commits the transaction. All three
database updates occur in the same transaction.

In link:#BNCJF[Figure 54-3], the client calls a business method in
`Bean-A`, which begins a transaction and updates Database X. Then
`Bean-A` invokes a method in `Bean-B`, which resides in a remote Jakarta EE
server. The method in `Bean-B` updates Database Y. The transaction
managers of the Jakarta EE servers ensure that both databases are updated
in the same transaction.

[[BNCJE]]

.*Figure 54-2 Updating Multiple Databases*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_051.png[
"A diagram showing Bean-A updating databases X and Y, and Bean-B updating
database Z."]

[[BNCJF]]

.*Figure 54-3 Updating Multiple Databases Across Jakarta EE Servers*
image:img/jakartaeett_dt_052.png[
"A diagram showing Bean-A on one Jakarta EE server updating database X, and
Bean-B on another Jakarta EE server updating database Y."]
