src/main/jbake/content/usingexamples008.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial
next=usingexamples009.html
prev=usingexamples007.html
~~~~~~
= Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial


[[GIQWR]][[getting-the-latest-updates-to-the-tutorial]]

Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial
------------------------------------------

Check for any updates to the tutorial by using the Update Tool included
with the Java EE SDK.

[[GIQYK]][[to-update-the-tutorial-using-netbeans-ide]]

To Update the Tutorial Using NetBeans IDE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Open the *Services* tab in NetBeans IDE and expand *Servers*.
2.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select *View Domain
Update Center* to display the Update Tool.
3.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
4.  Look for updates to the Java EE Tutorial (javaee-tutorial)
package.
5.  If there is an updated version of the Tutorial, select *Java EE
Tutorial* (`javaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.

[[sthref18]][[to-update-the-tutorial-using-the-command-line]]

To Update the Tutorial Using the Command Line
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Open a terminal window and enter the following command to display
the Update Tool:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
updatetool
----
2.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
3.  Look for updates to the Java EE Tutorial (`javaee-tutorial`)
package.
4.  If there is an updated version of the tutorial, select *Java EE
Tutorial* (`javaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.

Commit message:

"Java EE" -> "Jakarta EE", "javaee" -> "jakartaee", but still lots more to fix

src/main/jbake/content/usingexamples008.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial
next=usingexamples009.html
prev=usingexamples007.html
~~~~~~
= Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial


[[GIQWR]][[getting-the-latest-updates-to-the-tutorial]]

Getting the Latest Updates to the Tutorial
------------------------------------------

Check for any updates to the tutorial by using the Update Tool included
with the Jakarta EE SDK.

[[GIQYK]][[to-update-the-tutorial-using-netbeans-ide]]

To Update the Tutorial Using NetBeans IDE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Open the *Services* tab in NetBeans IDE and expand *Servers*.
2.  Right-click the GlassFish Server instance and select *View Domain
Update Center* to display the Update Tool.
3.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
4.  Look for updates to the Jakarta EE Tutorial (jakartaee-tutorial)
package.
5.  If there is an updated version of the Tutorial, select *Jakarta EE
Tutorial* (`jakartaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.

[[sthref18]][[to-update-the-tutorial-using-the-command-line]]

To Update the Tutorial Using the Command Line
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Open a terminal window and enter the following command to display
the Update Tool:
+
[source,oac_no_warn]
----
updatetool
----
2.  Select *Available Updates* in the tree to display a list of updated
packages.
3.  Look for updates to the Jakarta EE Tutorial (`jakartaee-tutorial`)
package.
4.  If there is an updated version of the tutorial, select *Jakarta EE
Tutorial* (`jakartaee-tutorial`) and click *Install*.
