src/main/asciidoc/resources/resources004.adoc, before:

[[CHDJFIGB]][[using-resource-adapters-with-contexts-and-dependency-injection-for-jakarta-ee-cdi]]

== Using Resource Adapters with Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection (CDI)

For details about CDI, see link:#GIWHB[Chapter 25,
"Introduction to Jakarta EE Contexts and Dependency Injection"] and
link:#GJEHI[Chapter 27, "Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection: Advanced Topics."]

Do not specify the following classes in the resource adapter as CDI
managed beans (that is, do not inject them), because the behavior of
these classes as CDI managed beans has not been portably defined.

* Resource adapter beans: These beans are classes that are annotated
with the `javax.resource.spi.Connector` annotation or are declared as
corresponding elements in the resource adapter deployment descriptor,
`ra.xml`.
* Managed connection factory beans: These beans are classes that are
annotated with the `javax.resource.spi.ConnectorDefinition` annotation
or the `javax.resource.spi.ConnectorDefinitions` annotation or are
declared as corresponding elements in `ra.xml`.
* Activation specification beans: These beans are classes that are
annotated with the `javax.resource.spi.Activation` annotation or are
declared as corresponding elements in `ra.xml`.
* Administered object beans: These beans are classes that are annotated
with the `javax.resource.spi.AdministeredObject` annotation or are
declared as corresponding elements in `ra.xml`.

Other types of classes in the resource adapter can be CDI managed beans
and will behave in a portable manner.

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/resources/resources004.adoc, after:

[[CHDJFIGB]][[using-resource-adapters-with-contexts-and-dependency-injection-for-jakarta-ee-cdi]]

== Using Resource Adapters with Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection (CDI)

For details about CDI, see link:#GIWHB[Chapter 25,
"Introduction to Jakarta EE Contexts and Dependency Injection"] and
link:#GJEHI[Chapter 27, "Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection: Advanced Topics."]

Do not specify the following classes in the resource adapter as CDI
managed beans (that is, do not inject them), because the behavior of
these classes as CDI managed beans has not been portably defined.

* Resource adapter beans: These beans are classes that are annotated
with the `jakarta.resource.spi.Connector` annotation or are declared as
corresponding elements in the resource adapter deployment descriptor,
`ra.xml`.
* Managed connection factory beans: These beans are classes that are
annotated with the `jakarta.resource.spi.ConnectorDefinition` annotation
or the `jakarta.resource.spi.ConnectorDefinitions` annotation or are
declared as corresponding elements in `ra.xml`.
* Activation specification beans: These beans are classes that are
annotated with the `jakarta.resource.spi.Activation` annotation or are
declared as corresponding elements in `ra.xml`.
* Administered object beans: These beans are classes that are annotated
with the `jakarta.resource.spi.AdministeredObject` annotation or are
declared as corresponding elements in `ra.xml`.

Other types of classes in the resource adapter can be CDI managed beans
and will behave in a portable manner.
