src/main/antora/modules/persist/pages/persistence-basicexamples/persistence-basicexamples004.adoc, before:

== The address-book Application

The `address-book` example application is a simple web application that stores contact data.
It uses a single entity class, `Contact`, that uses Jakarta Bean Validation to validate the data stored in the persistent attributes of the entity, as described in <<validating-persistent-fields-and-properties>>.

=== Bean Validation Constraints in address-book

The `Contact` entity uses the `@NotNull`, `@Pattern`, and `@Past` constraints on the persistent attributes.

The `@NotNull` constraint marks the attribute as a required field.
The attribute must be set to a non-null value before the entity can be persisted or modified.
Bean Validation will throw a validation error if the attribute is null when the entity is persisted or modified.

The `@Pattern` constraint defines a regular expression that the value of the attribute must match before the entity can be persisted or modified.
This constraint has two different uses in `address-book`.

* The regular expression declared in the `@Pattern` annotation on the `email` field matches email addresses of the form name``@``domain name``.``top level domain, allowing only valid characters for email addresses.
For example, `username@example.com` will pass validation, as will `firstname.lastname@mail.example.com`.
However, `firstname,\lastname@example.com`, which contains an illegal comma character in the local name, will fail validation.

* The `mobilePhone` and `homePhone` fields are annotated with a `@Pattern` constraint that defines a regular expression to match phone numbers of the form ``(``xxx``)`` xxx``-``xxxx.

The `@Past` constraint is applied to the birthday field, which must be a `java.util.Date` in the past.

Here are the relevant parts of the `Contact` entity class:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
public class Contact implements Serializable {
    @Id
    @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.AUTO)
    private Long id;
    @NotNull
    protected String firstName;
    @NotNull
    protected String lastName;
    @Pattern(regexp = "[a-z0-9!#$%&'*+/=?^_`{|}~-]+(?:\\."
            + "[a-z0-9!#$%&'*+/=?^_`{|}~-]+)*@"
            + "(?:[a-z0-9](?:[a-z0-9-]*[a-z0-9])?\\.)+[a-z0-9]"
            + "(?:[a-z0-9-]*[a-z0-9])?",
            message = "{invalid.email}")
    protected String email;
    @Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
            message = "{invalid.phonenumber}")
    protected String mobilePhone;
    @Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
            message = "{invalid.phonenumber}")
    protected String homePhone;
    @Temporal(jakarta.persistence.TemporalType.DATE)
    @Past
    protected Date birthday;
    ...
}
----

=== Specifying Error Messages for Constraints in address-book

Some of the constraints in the `Contact` entity specify an optional message:

[source,java]
----
@Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
        message = "{invalid.phonenumber}")
protected String homePhone;
----

The optional message element in the `@Pattern` constraint overrides the default validation message.
The message can be specified directly:

[source,java]
----
@Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
        message = "Invalid phone number!")
protected String homePhone;
----

The constraints in `Contact`, however, are strings in the resource bundle `ValidationMessages.properties`, under `_tut-install_/examples/persistence/address-book/src/java/`.
This allows the validation messages to be located in one single properties file and the messages to be easily localized.
Overridden Bean Validation messages must be placed in a resource bundle properties file named `ValidationMessages.properties` in the default package, with localized resource bundles taking the form `ValidationMessages___locale-prefix__.properties`.
For example, `ValidationMessages_es.properties` is the resource bundle used in Spanish-speaking locales.

=== Validating Contact Input from a Jakarta Faces Application

The `address-book` application uses a Jakarta Faces web front end to allow users to enter contacts.
While Jakarta Faces has a form input validation mechanism using tags in Facelets XHTML files, `address-book` doesn't use these validation tags.
Bean Validation constraints in Jakarta Faces managed beans, in this case in the `Contact` entity, automatically trigger validation when the forms are submitted.

The following code snippet from the `Create.xhtml` Facelets file shows some of the input form for creating new `Contact` instances:

[source,xml]
----
<h:form>
    <table columns="3" role="presentation">
        <tr>
            <td><h:outputLabel value="#{bundle.CreateContactLabel_firstName}"
                               for="firstName" /></td>
            <td><h:inputText id="firstName"
                             value="#{contactController.selected.firstName}"
                             title="#{bundle.CreateContactTitle_firstName}"/>
            </td>
            <td><h:message for="firstName" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><h:outputLabel value="#{bundle.CreateContactLabel_lastName}"
                               for="lastName" /></td>
            <td><h:inputText id="lastName"
                             value="#{contactController.selected.lastName}"
                             title="#{bundle.CreateContactTitle_lastName}" />
            </td>
            <td><h:message for="lastName" /></td>
        </tr>
        ...
    </table>
</h:form>
----

The `<h:inputText>` tags `firstName` and `lastName` are bound to the attributes in the `Contact` entity instance `selected` in the `ContactController` stateless session bean.
Each `<h:inputText>` tag has an associated `<h:message>` tag that will display validation error messages.
The form doesn't require any Jakarta Faces validation tags, however.

=== Running the address-book Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and run the `address-book` application.

==== To Run the address-book Example Using NetBeans IDE

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the *Open Project* dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence
----

. Select the `address-book` folder.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `address-book` project and select *Run*.
+
After the application has been deployed, a web browser window appears at the following URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/address-book/
----

. Click Show All Contact Items, then Create New Contact.
Enter values in the fields; then click Save.
+
If any of the values entered violate the constraints in `Contact`, an error message will appear in red beside the field with the incorrect values.

==== To Run the address-book Example Using Maven

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence/address-book/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This will compile and assemble the `address-book` application into a WAR.
The WAR file is then deployed to GlassFish Server.

. Open a web browser window and enter the following URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/address-book/
----

. Click Show All Contact Items, then Create New Contact.
Enter values in the fields; then click Save.
+
If any of the values entered violate the constraints in `Contact`, an error message will appear in red beside the field with the incorrect values.

Commit message:

JETUT-139 run AntoraConverter on persistence

src/main/antora/modules/persist/pages/persistence-basicexamples/persistence-basicexamples004.adoc, after:

== The address-book Application

The `address-book` example application is a simple web application that stores contact data.
It uses a single entity class, `Contact`, that uses Jakarta Bean Validation to validate the data stored in the persistent attributes of the entity, as described in xref:persistence-intro/persistence-intro.adoc#_validating_persistent_fields_and_properties[Validating Persistent Fields and Properties].

=== Bean Validation Constraints in address-book

The `Contact` entity uses the `@NotNull`, `@Pattern`, and `@Past` constraints on the persistent attributes.

The `@NotNull` constraint marks the attribute as a required field.
The attribute must be set to a non-null value before the entity can be persisted or modified.
Bean Validation will throw a validation error if the attribute is null when the entity is persisted or modified.

The `@Pattern` constraint defines a regular expression that the value of the attribute must match before the entity can be persisted or modified.
This constraint has two different uses in `address-book`.

* The regular expression declared in the `@Pattern` annotation on the `email` field matches email addresses of the form name``@``domain name``.``top level domain, allowing only valid characters for email addresses.
For example, `username@example.com` will pass validation, as will `firstname.lastname@mail.example.com`.
However, `firstname,\lastname@example.com`, which contains an illegal comma character in the local name, will fail validation.

* The `mobilePhone` and `homePhone` fields are annotated with a `@Pattern` constraint that defines a regular expression to match phone numbers of the form ``(``xxx``)`` xxx``-``xxxx.

The `@Past` constraint is applied to the birthday field, which must be a `java.util.Date` in the past.

Here are the relevant parts of the `Contact` entity class:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
public class Contact implements Serializable {
    @Id
    @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.AUTO)
    private Long id;
    @NotNull
    protected String firstName;
    @NotNull
    protected String lastName;
    @Pattern(regexp = "[a-z0-9!#$%&'*+/=?^_`{|}~-]+(?:\\."
            + "[a-z0-9!#$%&'*+/=?^_`{|}~-]+)*@"
            + "(?:[a-z0-9](?:[a-z0-9-]*[a-z0-9])?\\.)+[a-z0-9]"
            + "(?:[a-z0-9-]*[a-z0-9])?",
            message = "{invalid.email}")
    protected String email;
    @Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
            message = "{invalid.phonenumber}")
    protected String mobilePhone;
    @Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
            message = "{invalid.phonenumber}")
    protected String homePhone;
    @Temporal(jakarta.persistence.TemporalType.DATE)
    @Past
    protected Date birthday;
    ...
}
----

=== Specifying Error Messages for Constraints in address-book

Some of the constraints in the `Contact` entity specify an optional message:

[source,java]
----
@Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
        message = "{invalid.phonenumber}")
protected String homePhone;
----

The optional message element in the `@Pattern` constraint overrides the default validation message.
The message can be specified directly:

[source,java]
----
@Pattern(regexp = "^\\(?(\\d{3})\\)?[- ]?(\\d{3})[- ]?(\\d{4})$",
        message = "Invalid phone number!")
protected String homePhone;
----

The constraints in `Contact`, however, are strings in the resource bundle `ValidationMessages.properties`, under `_tut-install_/examples/persistence/address-book/src/java/`.
This allows the validation messages to be located in one single properties file and the messages to be easily localized.
Overridden Bean Validation messages must be placed in a resource bundle properties file named `ValidationMessages.properties` in the default package, with localized resource bundles taking the form `ValidationMessages___locale-prefix__.properties`.
For example, `ValidationMessages_es.properties` is the resource bundle used in Spanish-speaking locales.

=== Validating Contact Input from a Jakarta Faces Application

The `address-book` application uses a Jakarta Faces web front end to allow users to enter contacts.
While Jakarta Faces has a form input validation mechanism using tags in Facelets XHTML files, `address-book` doesn't use these validation tags.
Bean Validation constraints in Jakarta Faces managed beans, in this case in the `Contact` entity, automatically trigger validation when the forms are submitted.

The following code snippet from the `Create.xhtml` Facelets file shows some of the input form for creating new `Contact` instances:

[source,xml]
----
<h:form>
    <table columns="3" role="presentation">
        <tr>
            <td><h:outputLabel value="#{bundle.CreateContactLabel_firstName}"
                               for="firstName" /></td>
            <td><h:inputText id="firstName"
                             value="#{contactController.selected.firstName}"
                             title="#{bundle.CreateContactTitle_firstName}"/>
            </td>
            <td><h:message for="firstName" /></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><h:outputLabel value="#{bundle.CreateContactLabel_lastName}"
                               for="lastName" /></td>
            <td><h:inputText id="lastName"
                             value="#{contactController.selected.lastName}"
                             title="#{bundle.CreateContactTitle_lastName}" />
            </td>
            <td><h:message for="lastName" /></td>
        </tr>
        ...
    </table>
</h:form>
----

The `<h:inputText>` tags `firstName` and `lastName` are bound to the attributes in the `Contact` entity instance `selected` in the `ContactController` stateless session bean.
Each `<h:inputText>` tag has an associated `<h:message>` tag that will display validation error messages.
The form doesn't require any Jakarta Faces validation tags, however.

=== Running the address-book Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and run the `address-book` application.

==== To Run the address-book Example Using NetBeans IDE

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the *Open Project* dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence
----

. Select the `address-book` folder.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `address-book` project and select *Run*.
+
After the application has been deployed, a web browser window appears at the following URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/address-book/
----

. Click Show All Contact Items, then Create New Contact.
Enter values in the fields; then click Save.
+
If any of the values entered violate the constraints in `Contact`, an error message will appear in red beside the field with the incorrect values.

==== To Run the address-book Example Using Maven

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence/address-book/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This will compile and assemble the `address-book` application into a WAR.
The WAR file is then deployed to GlassFish Server.

. Open a web browser window and enter the following URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/address-book/
----

. Click Show All Contact Items, then Create New Contact.
Enter values in the fields; then click Save.
+
If any of the values entered violate the constraints in `Contact`, an error message will appear in red beside the field with the incorrect values.
