src/main/antora/modules/persist/pages/persistence-basicexamples/persistence-basicexamples003.adoc, before:

== The roster Application

The `roster` application maintains the team rosters for players in recreational sports leagues.
The application has four components: Jakarta Persistence entities (`Player`, `Team`, and `League`), a stateful session bean (`RequestBean`), an application client (`RosterClient`), and three helper classes (`PlayerDetails`, `TeamDetails`, and `LeagueDetails`).

Functionally, `roster` is similar to the `order` application, with three new features that `order` does not have: many-to-many relationships, entity inheritance, and automatic table creation at deployment time.

The database schema in Apache Derby for the `roster` application is shown in <<database-schema-for-the-roster-application>>.

[[database-schema-for-the-roster-application]]
.Database Schema for the roster Application
image::jakartaeett_dt_025.svg["Diagram showing the database schema for the roster application"]

[NOTE]
In this diagram, for simplicity, the `PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_` prefix is omitted from the table names.

=== Relationships in the roster Application

A recreational sports system has the following relationships.

* A player can be on many teams.

* A team can have many players.

* A team is in exactly one league.

* A league has many teams.

In `roster` this system is reflected by the following relationships between the `Player`, `Team`, and `League` entities.

* There is a many-to-many relationship between `Player` and `Team`.

* There is a many-to-one relationship between `Team` and `League`.

==== The Many-To-Many Relationship in roster

The many-to-many relationship between `Player` and `Team` is specified by using the `@ManyToMany` annotation.
In `Team.java`, the `@ManyToMany` annotation decorates the `getPlayers` method:

[source,java]
----
@ManyToMany
@JoinTable(
    name="PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_TEAM_PLAYER",
    joinColumns=
        @JoinColumn(name="TEAM_ID", referencedColumnName="ID"),
    inverseJoinColumns=
        @JoinColumn(name="PLAYER_ID", referencedColumnName="ID")
)
public Collection<Player> getPlayers() {
    return players;
}
----

The `@JoinTable` annotation is used to specify a database table that will associate player IDs with team IDs.
The entity that specifies the `@JoinTable` is the owner of the relationship, so the `Team` entity is the owner of the relationship with the `Player` entity.
Because `roster` uses automatic table creation at deployment time, the container will create a join table named `PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_TEAM_PLAYER`.

`Player` is the inverse, or nonowning, side of the relationship with `Team`.
As one-to-one and many-to-one relationships, the nonowning side is marked by the `mappedBy` element in the relationship annotation.
Because the relationship between `Player` and `Team` is bidirectional, the choice of which entity is the owner of the relationship is arbitrary.

In `Player.java`, the `@ManyToMany` annotation decorates the `getTeams` method:

[source,java]
----
@ManyToMany(mappedBy="players")
public Collection<Team> getTeams() {
    return teams;
}
----

=== Entity Inheritance in the roster Application

The `roster` application shows how to use entity inheritance, as described in <<entity-inheritance>>.

The `League` entity in `roster` is an abstract entity with two concrete subclasses: `SummerLeague` and `WinterLeague`.
Because `League` is an abstract class, it cannot be instantiated:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
@Table(name = "PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE")
public abstract class League implements Serializable { ... }
----

Instead, when creating a league, clients use `SummerLeague` or `WinterLeague`.
`SummerLeague` and `WinterLeague` inherit the persistent properties defined in `League` and add only a constructor that verifies that the sport parameter matches the type of sport allowed in that seasonal league.
For example, here is the `SummerLeague` entity:

[source,java]
----
...
@Entity
public class SummerLeague extends League implements Serializable {

    /** Creates a new instance of SummerLeague */
    public SummerLeague() {
    }

    public SummerLeague(String id, String name, String sport)
            throws IncorrectSportException {
        this.id = id;
        this.name = name;
        if (sport.equalsIgnoreCase("swimming") ||
                sport.equalsIgnoreCase("soccer") ||
                sport.equalsIgnoreCase("basketball") ||
                sport.equalsIgnoreCase("baseball")) {
            this.sport = sport;
        } else {
            throw new IncorrectSportException("Sport is not a summer sport.");
        }
    }
}
----

The `roster` application uses the default mapping strategy of `InheritanceType.SINGLE_TABLE`, so the `@Inheritance` annotation is not required.
If you want to use a different mapping strategy, decorate `League` with `@Inheritance` and specify the mapping strategy in the `strategy` element:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
@Inheritance(strategy=JOINED)
@Table(name="PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE")
public abstract class League implements Serializable { ... }
----

The `roster` application uses the default discriminator column name, so the `@DiscriminatorColumn` annotation is not required.
Because you are using automatic table generation in `roster`, the Persistence provider will create a discriminator column called `DTYPE` in the `PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE` table, which will store the name of the inherited entity used to create the league.
If you want to use a different name for the discriminator column, decorate `League` with `@DiscriminatorColumn` and set the `name` element:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
@DiscriminatorColumn(name="DISCRIMINATOR")
@Table(name="PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE")
public abstract class League implements Serializable { ... }
----

=== Criteria Queries in the roster Application

The `roster` application uses Criteria API queries, as opposed to the JPQL queries used in `order`.
Criteria queries are Java programming language, typesafe queries defined in the business tier of `roster`, in the `RequestBean` stateful session bean.

==== Metamodel Classes in the roster Application

Metamodel classes model an entity's attributes and are used by Criteria queries to navigate to an entity's attributes.
Each entity class in `roster` has a corresponding metamodel class, generated at compile time, with the same package name as the entity and appended with an underscore character (`\_`).
For example, the `roster.entity.Player` entity has a corresponding metamodel class, `roster.entity.Player_`.

Each persistent field or property in the entity class has a corresponding attribute in the entity's metamodel class.
For the `Player` entity, the corresponding metamodel class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
@StaticMetamodel(Player.class)
public class Player_ {
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, String> id;
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, String> name;
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, String> position;
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, Double> salary;
    public static volatile CollectionAttribute<Player, Team> teams;
}
----

==== Obtaining a CriteriaBuilder Instance in RequestBean

The `CriteriaBuilder` interface defines methods to create criteria query objects and create expressions for modifying those query objects.
`RequestBean` creates an instance of `CriteriaBuilder` by using a `@PostConstruct` method, `init`:

[source,java]
----
@PersistenceContext
private EntityManager em;
private CriteriaBuilder cb;

@PostConstruct
private void init() {
    cb = em.getCriteriaBuilder();
}
----

The `EntityManager` instance is injected at runtime, and then that `EntityManager` object is used to create the `CriteriaBuilder` instance by calling `getCriteriaBuilder`.
The `CriteriaBuilder` instance is created in a `@PostConstruct` method to ensure that the `EntityManager` instance has been injected by the enterprise bean container.

==== Creating Criteria Queries in RequestBean's Business Methods

Many of the business methods in `RequestBean` define Criteria queries.
One business method, `getPlayersByPosition`, returns a list of players who play a particular position on a team:

[source,java]
----
public List<PlayerDetails> getPlayersByPosition(String position) {
    logger.info("getPlayersByPosition");
    List<Player> players = null;

    try {
        CriteriaQuery<Player> cq = cb.createQuery(Player.class);
        if (cq != null) {
            Root<Player> player = cq.from(Player.class);

            // set the where clause
            cq.where(cb.equal(player.get(Player_.position), position));
            cq.select(player);
            TypedQuery<Player> q = em.createQuery(cq);
            players = q.getResultList();
        }
        return copyPlayersToDetails(players);
    } catch (Exception ex) {
        throw new EJBException(ex);
    }
}
----

A query object is created by calling the `CriteriaBuilder` object's `createQuery` method, with the type set to `Player` because the query will return a list of players.

The query root, the base entity from which the query will navigate to find the entity's attributes and related entities, is created by calling the `from` method of the query object.
This sets the `FROM` clause of the query.

The `WHERE` clause, set by calling the `where` method on the query object, restricts the results of the query according to the conditions of an expression.
The `CriteriaBuilder.equal` method compares the two expressions.
In `getPlayersByPosition`, the `position` attribute of the `Player_` metamodel class, accessed by calling the `get` method of the query root, is compared to the `position` parameter passed to `getPlayersByPosition`.

The `SELECT` clause of the query is set by calling the `select` method of the query object.
The query will return `Player` entities, so the query root object is passed as a parameter to `select`.

The query object is prepared for execution by calling `EntityManager.createQuery`, which returns a `TypedQuery<T>` object with the type of the query, in this case `Player`.
This typed query object is used to execute the query, which occurs when the `getResultList` method is called, and a `List<Player>` collection is returned.

=== Automatic Table Generation in the roster Application

At deployment time, GlassFish Server will automatically drop and create the database tables used by `roster`.
This is done by setting the `jakarta.persistence.schema-generation.database.action` property to `drop-and-create` in `persistence.xml`:

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<persistence version="3.0"
    xmlns="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/persistence"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/persistence
        https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/persistence/persistence_3_0.xsd">
  <persistence-unit name="em" transaction-type="JTA">
    <jta-data-source>java:comp/DefaultDataSource</jta-data-source>
    <properties>
      <property name="jakarta.persistence.schema-generation.database.action"
                value="drop-and-create"/>
    </properties>
  </persistence-unit>
</persistence>
----

=== Running the roster Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and run the `roster` application.

==== To Run the roster Example Using NetBeans IDE

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the *Open Project* dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence
----

. Select the `roster` folder.

. Select the *Open Required Projects* check box.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `roster` project and select *Build*.
+
This will compile, package, and deploy the EAR to GlassFish Server.
+
You will see the following partial output from the application client in the Output tab:
+
----
List all players in team T2:
P6 Ian Carlyle goalkeeper 555.0
P7 Rebecca Struthers midfielder 777.0
P8 Anne Anderson forward 65.0
P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
P10 Terry Smithson midfielder 100.0

List all teams in league L1:
T1 Honey Bees Visalia
T2 Gophers Manteca
T5 Crows Orland

List all defenders:
P2 Alice Smith defender 505.0
P5 Barney Bold defender 100.0
P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
P22 Janice Walker defender 857.0
P25 Frank Fletcher defender 399.0
----

==== To Run the roster Example Using Maven

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence/roster/roster-ear/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This compiles the source files and packages the application into an EAR file located at `_tut-install_/examples/persistence/roster/target/roster.ear`.
The EAR file is then deployed to GlassFish Server.
GlassFish Server will then drop and create the database tables during deployment, as specified in `persistence.xml`.
+
After successfully deploying the EAR, the client stubs are retrieved and the application client is run using the appclient application included with GlassFish Server.
+
You will see the output, which begins as follows:
+
----
[echo] running application client container.
[exec] List all players in team T2:
[exec] P6 Ian Carlyle goalkeeper 555.0
[exec] P7 Rebecca Struthers midfielder 777.0
[exec] P8 Anne Anderson forward 65.0
[exec] P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
[exec] P10 Terry Smithson midfielder 100.0

[exec] List all teams in league L1:
[exec] T1 Honey Bees Visalia
[exec] T2 Gophers Manteca
[exec] T5 Crows Orland

[exec] List all defenders:
[exec] P2 Alice Smith defender 505.0
[exec] P5 Barney Bold defender 100.0
[exec] P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
[exec] P22 Janice Walker defender 857.0
[exec] P25 Frank Fletcher defender 399.0
----

Commit message:

JETUT-139 run AntoraConverter on persistence

src/main/antora/modules/persist/pages/persistence-basicexamples/persistence-basicexamples003.adoc, after:

== The roster Application

The `roster` application maintains the team rosters for players in recreational sports leagues.
The application has four components: Jakarta Persistence entities (`Player`, `Team`, and `League`), a stateful session bean (`RequestBean`), an application client (`RosterClient`), and three helper classes (`PlayerDetails`, `TeamDetails`, and `LeagueDetails`).

Functionally, `roster` is similar to the `order` application, with three new features that `order` does not have: many-to-many relationships, entity inheritance, and automatic table creation at deployment time.

The database schema in Apache Derby for the `roster` application is shown in <<_database_schema_for_the_roster_application>>.

[[_database_schema_for_the_roster_application]]
.Database Schema for the roster Application
image::common:jakartaeett_dt_025.svg["Diagram showing the database schema for the roster application"]

[NOTE]
In this diagram, for simplicity, the `PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_` prefix is omitted from the table names.

=== Relationships in the roster Application

A recreational sports system has the following relationships.

* A player can be on many teams.

* A team can have many players.

* A team is in exactly one league.

* A league has many teams.

In `roster` this system is reflected by the following relationships between the `Player`, `Team`, and `League` entities.

* There is a many-to-many relationship between `Player` and `Team`.

* There is a many-to-one relationship between `Team` and `League`.

==== The Many-To-Many Relationship in roster

The many-to-many relationship between `Player` and `Team` is specified by using the `@ManyToMany` annotation.
In `Team.java`, the `@ManyToMany` annotation decorates the `getPlayers` method:

[source,java]
----
@ManyToMany
@JoinTable(
    name="PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_TEAM_PLAYER",
    joinColumns=
        @JoinColumn(name="TEAM_ID", referencedColumnName="ID"),
    inverseJoinColumns=
        @JoinColumn(name="PLAYER_ID", referencedColumnName="ID")
)
public Collection<Player> getPlayers() {
    return players;
}
----

The `@JoinTable` annotation is used to specify a database table that will associate player IDs with team IDs.
The entity that specifies the `@JoinTable` is the owner of the relationship, so the `Team` entity is the owner of the relationship with the `Player` entity.
Because `roster` uses automatic table creation at deployment time, the container will create a join table named `PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_TEAM_PLAYER`.

`Player` is the inverse, or nonowning, side of the relationship with `Team`.
As one-to-one and many-to-one relationships, the nonowning side is marked by the `mappedBy` element in the relationship annotation.
Because the relationship between `Player` and `Team` is bidirectional, the choice of which entity is the owner of the relationship is arbitrary.

In `Player.java`, the `@ManyToMany` annotation decorates the `getTeams` method:

[source,java]
----
@ManyToMany(mappedBy="players")
public Collection<Team> getTeams() {
    return teams;
}
----

=== Entity Inheritance in the roster Application

The `roster` application shows how to use entity inheritance, as described in xref:persistence-intro/persistence-intro.adoc#_entity_inheritance[Entity Inheritance].

The `League` entity in `roster` is an abstract entity with two concrete subclasses: `SummerLeague` and `WinterLeague`.
Because `League` is an abstract class, it cannot be instantiated:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
@Table(name = "PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE")
public abstract class League implements Serializable { ... }
----

Instead, when creating a league, clients use `SummerLeague` or `WinterLeague`.
`SummerLeague` and `WinterLeague` inherit the persistent properties defined in `League` and add only a constructor that verifies that the sport parameter matches the type of sport allowed in that seasonal league.
For example, here is the `SummerLeague` entity:

[source,java]
----
...
@Entity
public class SummerLeague extends League implements Serializable {

    /** Creates a new instance of SummerLeague */
    public SummerLeague() {
    }

    public SummerLeague(String id, String name, String sport)
            throws IncorrectSportException {
        this.id = id;
        this.name = name;
        if (sport.equalsIgnoreCase("swimming") ||
                sport.equalsIgnoreCase("soccer") ||
                sport.equalsIgnoreCase("basketball") ||
                sport.equalsIgnoreCase("baseball")) {
            this.sport = sport;
        } else {
            throw new IncorrectSportException("Sport is not a summer sport.");
        }
    }
}
----

The `roster` application uses the default mapping strategy of `InheritanceType.SINGLE_TABLE`, so the `@Inheritance` annotation is not required.
If you want to use a different mapping strategy, decorate `League` with `@Inheritance` and specify the mapping strategy in the `strategy` element:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
@Inheritance(strategy=JOINED)
@Table(name="PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE")
public abstract class League implements Serializable { ... }
----

The `roster` application uses the default discriminator column name, so the `@DiscriminatorColumn` annotation is not required.
Because you are using automatic table generation in `roster`, the Persistence provider will create a discriminator column called `DTYPE` in the `PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE` table, which will store the name of the inherited entity used to create the league.
If you want to use a different name for the discriminator column, decorate `League` with `@DiscriminatorColumn` and set the `name` element:

[source,java]
----
@Entity
@DiscriminatorColumn(name="DISCRIMINATOR")
@Table(name="PERSISTENCE_ROSTER_LEAGUE")
public abstract class League implements Serializable { ... }
----

=== Criteria Queries in the roster Application

The `roster` application uses Criteria API queries, as opposed to the JPQL queries used in `order`.
Criteria queries are Java programming language, typesafe queries defined in the business tier of `roster`, in the `RequestBean` stateful session bean.

==== Metamodel Classes in the roster Application

Metamodel classes model an entity's attributes and are used by Criteria queries to navigate to an entity's attributes.
Each entity class in `roster` has a corresponding metamodel class, generated at compile time, with the same package name as the entity and appended with an underscore character (`\_`).
For example, the `roster.entity.Player` entity has a corresponding metamodel class, `roster.entity.Player_`.

Each persistent field or property in the entity class has a corresponding attribute in the entity's metamodel class.
For the `Player` entity, the corresponding metamodel class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
@StaticMetamodel(Player.class)
public class Player_ {
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, String> id;
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, String> name;
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, String> position;
    public static volatile SingularAttribute<Player, Double> salary;
    public static volatile CollectionAttribute<Player, Team> teams;
}
----

==== Obtaining a CriteriaBuilder Instance in RequestBean

The `CriteriaBuilder` interface defines methods to create criteria query objects and create expressions for modifying those query objects.
`RequestBean` creates an instance of `CriteriaBuilder` by using a `@PostConstruct` method, `init`:

[source,java]
----
@PersistenceContext
private EntityManager em;
private CriteriaBuilder cb;

@PostConstruct
private void init() {
    cb = em.getCriteriaBuilder();
}
----

The `EntityManager` instance is injected at runtime, and then that `EntityManager` object is used to create the `CriteriaBuilder` instance by calling `getCriteriaBuilder`.
The `CriteriaBuilder` instance is created in a `@PostConstruct` method to ensure that the `EntityManager` instance has been injected by the enterprise bean container.

==== Creating Criteria Queries in RequestBean's Business Methods

Many of the business methods in `RequestBean` define Criteria queries.
One business method, `getPlayersByPosition`, returns a list of players who play a particular position on a team:

[source,java]
----
public List<PlayerDetails> getPlayersByPosition(String position) {
    logger.info("getPlayersByPosition");
    List<Player> players = null;

    try {
        CriteriaQuery<Player> cq = cb.createQuery(Player.class);
        if (cq != null) {
            Root<Player> player = cq.from(Player.class);

            // set the where clause
            cq.where(cb.equal(player.get(Player_.position), position));
            cq.select(player);
            TypedQuery<Player> q = em.createQuery(cq);
            players = q.getResultList();
        }
        return copyPlayersToDetails(players);
    } catch (Exception ex) {
        throw new EJBException(ex);
    }
}
----

A query object is created by calling the `CriteriaBuilder` object's `createQuery` method, with the type set to `Player` because the query will return a list of players.

The query root, the base entity from which the query will navigate to find the entity's attributes and related entities, is created by calling the `from` method of the query object.
This sets the `FROM` clause of the query.

The `WHERE` clause, set by calling the `where` method on the query object, restricts the results of the query according to the conditions of an expression.
The `CriteriaBuilder.equal` method compares the two expressions.
In `getPlayersByPosition`, the `position` attribute of the `Player_` metamodel class, accessed by calling the `get` method of the query root, is compared to the `position` parameter passed to `getPlayersByPosition`.

The `SELECT` clause of the query is set by calling the `select` method of the query object.
The query will return `Player` entities, so the query root object is passed as a parameter to `select`.

The query object is prepared for execution by calling `EntityManager.createQuery`, which returns a `TypedQuery<T>` object with the type of the query, in this case `Player`.
This typed query object is used to execute the query, which occurs when the `getResultList` method is called, and a `List<Player>` collection is returned.

=== Automatic Table Generation in the roster Application

At deployment time, GlassFish Server will automatically drop and create the database tables used by `roster`.
This is done by setting the `jakarta.persistence.schema-generation.database.action` property to `drop-and-create` in `persistence.xml`:

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<persistence version="3.0"
    xmlns="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/persistence"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/persistence
        https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/persistence/persistence_3_0.xsd">
  <persistence-unit name="em" transaction-type="JTA">
    <jta-data-source>java:comp/DefaultDataSource</jta-data-source>
    <properties>
      <property name="jakarta.persistence.schema-generation.database.action"
                value="drop-and-create"/>
    </properties>
  </persistence-unit>
</persistence>
----

=== Running the roster Example

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and run the `roster` application.

==== To Run the roster Example Using NetBeans IDE

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the *Open Project* dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence
----

. Select the `roster` folder.

. Select the *Open Required Projects* check box.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `roster` project and select *Build*.
+
This will compile, package, and deploy the EAR to GlassFish Server.
+
You will see the following partial output from the application client in the Output tab:
+
----
List all players in team T2:
P6 Ian Carlyle goalkeeper 555.0
P7 Rebecca Struthers midfielder 777.0
P8 Anne Anderson forward 65.0
P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
P10 Terry Smithson midfielder 100.0

List all teams in league L1:
T1 Honey Bees Visalia
T2 Gophers Manteca
T5 Crows Orland

List all defenders:
P2 Alice Smith defender 505.0
P5 Barney Bold defender 100.0
P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
P22 Janice Walker defender 857.0
P25 Frank Fletcher defender 399.0
----

==== To Run the roster Example Using Maven

. Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see <<starting-and-stopping-glassfish-server>>).

. If the database server is not already running, start it by following the instructions in <<starting-and-stopping-apache-derby>>.

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/persistence/roster/roster-ear/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This compiles the source files and packages the application into an EAR file located at `_tut-install_/examples/persistence/roster/target/roster.ear`.
The EAR file is then deployed to GlassFish Server.
GlassFish Server will then drop and create the database tables during deployment, as specified in `persistence.xml`.
+
After successfully deploying the EAR, the client stubs are retrieved and the application client is run using the appclient application included with GlassFish Server.
+
You will see the output, which begins as follows:
+
----
[echo] running application client container.
[exec] List all players in team T2:
[exec] P6 Ian Carlyle goalkeeper 555.0
[exec] P7 Rebecca Struthers midfielder 777.0
[exec] P8 Anne Anderson forward 65.0
[exec] P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
[exec] P10 Terry Smithson midfielder 100.0

[exec] List all teams in league L1:
[exec] T1 Honey Bees Visalia
[exec] T2 Gophers Manteca
[exec] T5 Crows Orland

[exec] List all defenders:
[exec] P2 Alice Smith defender 505.0
[exec] P5 Barney Bold defender 100.0
[exec] P9 Jan Wesley defender 100.0
[exec] P22 Janice Walker defender 857.0
[exec] P25 Frank Fletcher defender 399.0
----
