src/main/asciidoc/webapp/webapp002.adoc, before:

== The Web Application Archive

A Jakarta Servlet based web application can contain one or more of the following parts:

* one or more web components, which can be represented by Jakarta Servlet, Jakarta Faces or Jakarta REST
* assets (also called static resource files), such Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript (JS) and images
* helper libraries
* DD files

The process for creating, deploying, and executing a Jakarta Servlet based web application is different from that of Java classes which are packaged and executed as a Java application archive (JAR).
It can be summarized as follows:

. Develop the web component code.
. Develop the DD files, if necessary.
. Compile the web component code against the libraries of the servlet container and the helper libraries, if any.
. Package the compiled code along with helper libraries, assets and DD files, if any, into a deployable unit, called a web application archive (WAR).
. Deploy the WAR into a servlet container.
. Run the web application by accessing a URL that references the web component.

Developing the web component code and DD files is covered in the later chapters.
Steps 3 through 6 are expanded on in the following sections and illustrated with a Hello World–style, web application.
This application allows a user to enter a name into an HTML form and then displays a greeting after the name is submitted.

The Hello World application contains two web components that generate the greeting and the response.
This chapter discusses the following simple applications:

* `helloFaces`, a Jakarta Faces based presentation-oriented web application
* `helloServlet`, a Jakarta Servlet based service-oriented web application

The applications are used to illustrate tasks involved in compiling, packaging, deploying, and running a Jakarta Servlet based web application that contains web components.

Commit message:

JETUT-72: improvements after self-review

src/main/asciidoc/webapp/webapp002.adoc, after:

== The Web Application Archive

A Jakarta Servlet based web application can contain one or more of the following parts:

* one or more web components, which can be represented by Jakarta Servlet, Jakarta Faces or Jakarta REST
* assets (also called static resource files), such Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript (JS) and images
* helper libraries
* DD files

The process for creating, deploying, and executing a Jakarta Servlet based web application is different from that of Java classes which are packaged and executed as a Java application archive (JAR).
It can be summarized as follows:

. Develop the web component code.
. Develop the DD files, if necessary.
. Compile the web component code against the libraries of the servlet container and the helper libraries, if any.
. Package the compiled code along with helper libraries, assets and DD files, if any, into a deployable unit, called a web application archive (WAR).
. Deploy the WAR into a servlet container.
. Run the web application by accessing a URL that references the web component.

Developing the web component code and DD files is covered in the later chapters.
Steps 3 through 6 are expanded on in the following sections and illustrated with two web applications, in Hello World–style.
The web applications take a name as an HTTP request parameter, generate the greeting and return it as an HTTP response.
This chapter discusses the following simple web applications:

* `helloFaces`, a Jakarta Faces based presentation-oriented web application
* `helloServlet`, a Jakarta Servlet based service-oriented web application

The web applications are used to illustrate tasks involved in compiling, packaging, deploying, and running a Jakarta Servlet based web application that contains web component code.
