src/main/asciidoc/webapp/webapp005.adoc, before:

== Jakarta Servlet Deployment Descriptor

This section describes the following tasks involved with configuring Jakarta Servlet based web applications:

* Preparing deployment descriptor
* Setting context parameters
* Declaring welcome files
* Mapping errors to error screens
* Declaring resource references


=== Preparing Deployment Descriptor

The Jakarta Servlet deployment descriptor is represented by the `WEB-INF/web.xml` file which is in a Maven based project placed in `src/main/webapp` folder.
It must be a XML file with a `<web-app>` root element conform the `web-app_X_Y.xsd` XML schema of the https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee[https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee] namespace.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<web-app xmlns="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee/web-app_6_0.xsd"
         version="6.0">

    <!-- Put configuration here -->

</web-app>
----


=== Setting Context Parameters

The web components in a web application share an object that represents their application context, the `jakarta.servlet.ServletContext`.
You define context-wide initialization parameters in the `web.xml` file.

[source,xml]
----
<context-param>
    <param-name>com.example.THEME</param-name>
    <param-value>blue</param-value>
</context-param>
----

You can obtain them in application code via `getInitParameter(String name)` method of the `ServletContext` instance.

[source,java]
----
String theme = servletContext.getInitParameter("com.example.THEME");
----

These context parameters can be used to configure (default) application-wide variables, such as the web application's project stage, the path to save uploaded files, the path to a more specific configuration file, the maximum size of a cache, the expiration time of a cacheable resource, the name of the tenant/theme/scheme, or even helper library specific parameters, etcetera, but never passwords.
It are those variables which you'd normally define as constants in a Java class, but then without the need to recompile Java classes whenever you'd like to edit them.


=== Declaring Welcome Files

The welcome files mechanism allows you to specify a list of files that the servlet container can return as a default resource when any folder is requested which does not map to an existing web component.
For example, suppose that you define two welcome files `index.xhtml` and `index.html`.
So, if for example the `/` folder is requested, and it does not map to a web component, then it'll search for `/index.xhtml` and `/index.html` files and return the first found one.
Or if there is none, then the servlet container will continue to perform the default behavior, which is usually displaying a HTTP 404 error page.
Note that this also applies to sub folders, so if for example the `/foo` folder is requested, then it'll search for `/foo/index.xhtml` and `/foo/index.html` files and return the first found one.
You specify welcome files in the `web.xml` file.

[source,xml]
----
<welcome-file-list>
    <welcome-file>index.xhtml</welcome-file>
    <welcome-file>index.html</welcome-file>
</welcome-file-list>
----

A specified welcome file must not have a leading slash (`/`) as it is interpreted independently of the requested folder.


=== Mapping Errors to Error Pages

When an error occurs during execution of a web application, you can have the application display a specific error page according to the type of error.
In particular, you can specify a mapping between the status code returned in an HTTP response or a Java programming language exception returned by any web component and any type of error page.
You specify error pages in the `web.xml` file.

[source,xml]
----
<error-page>
    <error-code>401</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/unauthorized.xhtml</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <error-code>403</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/unauthenticated.xhtml</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <error-code>404</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/not-found.xhtml</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <error-code>500</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/general-error.html</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <exception-type>jakarta.faces.application.ViewExpiredException</exception-type>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/view-expired.html</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <!-- No error-code or exception-type, i.e. this will match any other HTTP status than defined above -->
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/unknown-error.html</location>
</error-page>
----

A specified location must have a leading slash (`/`) as it is interpreted as an absolute path within the context of the web application deployment.
The error page being placed in `/WEB-INF` folder is not technically required, but it is the best practice as it will prevent the client from being able to request or even bookmark them individually.


=== Declaring Resource References

If your web application uses external resources, such as data sources or mail sessions, then you can specify it in `web.xml` and use the `@javax.annotation.Resource` annotation to inject it into a container-managed object of your web application.

The `@Resource` annotation can be specified on a class, a method, or a field.
The container is responsible for instantiating and injecting references to resources declared by the `@Resource` annotation in container-managed objects and mapping it to the proper JNDI resources.

Container-managed objects are primarily those objects which you do not explicitly instantiate yourself as in `new ContainerManagedObject()` but basically let the container do.
For example CDI managed beans in case of a CDI container, and web components in case of a servlet container.
CDI managed beans are recognizable as classes having a CDI scope annotation such as `@RequestScoped` or `@Dependent`.
Web components are recognizable as classes that extend or implement a class or interface of the `jakarta.servlet.*` package, and are registered via an annotation of the `jakarta.servlet.annotation.*` package or an entry in the `web.xml` file.


==== Declaring Data Source References

If your web application uses data sources, then you can specify it in `web.xml` and use the `@Resource` annotation to inject it into a container-managed object of your web application as a `javax.sqlDataSource` instance.
The below example specifies a H2 data source listening on JNDI resource name of `java:global/YourDataSourceName`, using the `org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource` as `javax.sql.DataSource` implementation.

[source,xml]
----
<data-source>
    <name>java:global/YourDataSourceName</name>
    <class-name>org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource</class-name>
    <url>jdbc:h2:mem:test</url>
</data-source>
----

If you have only one data source reference specified, then you can inject it as a `@Resource` of `javax.sql.DataSource` type without an explicit JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource
private DataSource dataSource;

public Connection getConnection() {
    return dataSource.getConnection();
}
----

If you have more than one data source reference specified, then you need to explicitly specify the JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource(name="java:global/YourDataSourceName")
private DataSource dataSource;

public Connection getConnection() {
    return dataSource.getConnection();
}
----


==== Declaring Mail Session References

If your web application uses mail sessions, then you can specify it in `web.xml` and use the `@Resource` annotation to inject it into a container-managed object of your web application as a `javax.mail.Session` instance.
The below example specifies a SMTP mail session listening on JNDI name of `java:global/YourMailSessionName`, using the `smtp.example.com` host to create `javax.mail.Session` for.

[source,xml]
----
<mail-session>
    <name>java:global/YourMailSessionName</name>
    <host>smtp.example.com</host>
    <user>user@example.com</user>
</mail-session>
----

If you have only one mail session reference specified, then you can inject it as a `@Resource` of `javax.mail.Session` type without an explicit JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource
private Session session;

public void sendMail(YourMail mail) throws MessagingException {
    Message message = new MimeMessage(session);
    // ...
}
----

If you have more than one mail session reference specified, then you need to explicitly specify the JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource(name="java:global/YourMailSessionName")
private Session session;

public void sendMail(YourMail mail) throws MessagingException {
    Message message = new MimeMessage(session);
    // ...
}
----

Commit message:

JETUT-72: fixed package of JavaMail session

src/main/asciidoc/webapp/webapp005.adoc, after:

== Jakarta Servlet Deployment Descriptor

This section describes the following tasks involved with configuring Jakarta Servlet based web applications:

* Preparing deployment descriptor
* Setting context parameters
* Declaring welcome files
* Mapping errors to error screens
* Declaring resource references


=== Preparing Deployment Descriptor

The Jakarta Servlet deployment descriptor is represented by the `WEB-INF/web.xml` file which is in a Maven based project placed in `src/main/webapp` folder.
It must be a XML file with a `<web-app>` root element conform the `web-app_X_Y.xsd` XML schema of the https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee[https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee] namespace.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<web-app xmlns="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee/web-app_6_0.xsd"
         version="6.0">

    <!-- Put configuration here -->

</web-app>
----


=== Setting Context Parameters

The web components in a web application share an object that represents their application context, the `jakarta.servlet.ServletContext`.
You define context-wide initialization parameters in the `web.xml` file.

[source,xml]
----
<context-param>
    <param-name>com.example.THEME</param-name>
    <param-value>blue</param-value>
</context-param>
----

You can obtain them in application code via `getInitParameter(String name)` method of the `ServletContext` instance.

[source,java]
----
String theme = servletContext.getInitParameter("com.example.THEME");
----

These context parameters can be used to configure (default) application-wide variables, such as the web application's project stage, the path to save uploaded files, the path to a more specific configuration file, the maximum size of a cache, the expiration time of a cacheable resource, the name of the tenant/theme/scheme, or even helper library specific parameters, etcetera, but never passwords.
It are those variables which you'd normally define as constants in a Java class, but then without the need to recompile Java classes whenever you'd like to edit them.


=== Declaring Welcome Files

The welcome files mechanism allows you to specify a list of files that the servlet container can return as a default resource when any folder is requested which does not map to an existing web component.
For example, suppose that you define two welcome files `index.xhtml` and `index.html`.
So, if for example the `/` folder is requested, and it does not map to a web component, then it'll search for `/index.xhtml` and `/index.html` files and return the first found one.
Or if there is none, then the servlet container will continue to perform the default behavior, which is usually displaying a HTTP 404 error page.
Note that this also applies to sub folders, so if for example the `/foo` folder is requested, then it'll search for `/foo/index.xhtml` and `/foo/index.html` files and return the first found one.
You specify welcome files in the `web.xml` file.

[source,xml]
----
<welcome-file-list>
    <welcome-file>index.xhtml</welcome-file>
    <welcome-file>index.html</welcome-file>
</welcome-file-list>
----

A specified welcome file must not have a leading slash (`/`) as it is interpreted independently of the requested folder.


=== Mapping Errors to Error Pages

When an error occurs during execution of a web application, you can have the application display a specific error page according to the type of error.
In particular, you can specify a mapping between the status code returned in an HTTP response or a Java programming language exception returned by any web component and any type of error page.
You specify error pages in the `web.xml` file.

[source,xml]
----
<error-page>
    <error-code>401</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/unauthorized.xhtml</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <error-code>403</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/unauthenticated.xhtml</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <error-code>404</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/not-found.xhtml</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <error-code>500</error-code>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/general-error.html</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <exception-type>jakarta.faces.application.ViewExpiredException</exception-type>
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/view-expired.html</location>
</error-page>
<error-page>
    <!-- No error-code or exception-type, i.e. this will match any other HTTP status than defined above -->
    <location>/WEB-INF/error-pages/unknown-error.html</location>
</error-page>
----

A specified location must have a leading slash (`/`) as it is interpreted as an absolute path within the context of the web application deployment.
The error page being placed in `/WEB-INF` folder is not technically required, but it is the best practice as it will prevent the client from being able to request or even bookmark them individually.


=== Declaring Resource References

If your web application uses external resources, such as data sources or mail sessions, then you can specify it in `web.xml` and use the `@javax.annotation.Resource` annotation to inject it into a container-managed object of your web application.

The `@Resource` annotation can be specified on a class, a method, or a field.
The container is responsible for instantiating and injecting references to resources declared by the `@Resource` annotation in container-managed objects and mapping it to the proper JNDI resources.

Container-managed objects are primarily those objects which you do not explicitly instantiate yourself as in `new ContainerManagedObject()` but basically let the container do.
For example CDI managed beans in case of a CDI container, and web components in case of a servlet container.
CDI managed beans are recognizable as classes having a CDI scope annotation such as `@RequestScoped` or `@Dependent`.
Web components are recognizable as classes that extend or implement a class or interface of the `jakarta.servlet.*` package, and are registered via an annotation of the `jakarta.servlet.annotation.*` package or an entry in the `web.xml` file.


==== Declaring Data Source References

If your web application uses data sources, then you can specify it in `web.xml` and use the `@Resource` annotation to inject it into a container-managed object of your web application as a `javax.sql.DataSource` instance.
The below example specifies a H2 data source listening on JNDI resource name of `java:global/YourDataSourceName`, using the `org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource` as `javax.sql.DataSource` implementation.

[source,xml]
----
<data-source>
    <name>java:global/YourDataSourceName</name>
    <class-name>org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcDataSource</class-name>
    <url>jdbc:h2:mem:test</url>
</data-source>
----

If you have only one data source reference specified, then you can inject it as a `@Resource` of `javax.sql.DataSource` type without an explicit JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource
private DataSource dataSource;

public Connection getConnection() {
    return dataSource.getConnection();
}
----

If you have more than one data source reference specified, then you need to explicitly specify the JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource(name="java:global/YourDataSourceName")
private DataSource dataSource;

public Connection getConnection() {
    return dataSource.getConnection();
}
----

Do note that `javax.sql.DataSource` is not part of Jakarta EE but of Java SE and hence it has still the `javax` as root package.

==== Declaring Mail Session References

If your web application uses mail sessions, then you can specify it in `web.xml` and use the `@Resource` annotation to inject it into a container-managed object of your web application as a `jakarta.mail.Session` instance.
The below example specifies a SMTP mail session listening on JNDI name of `java:global/YourMailSessionName`, using the `smtp.example.com` host to create `jakarta.mail.Session` for.

[source,xml]
----
<mail-session>
    <name>java:global/YourMailSessionName</name>
    <host>smtp.example.com</host>
    <user>user@example.com</user>
</mail-session>
----

If you have only one mail session reference specified, then you can inject it as a `@Resource` of `jakarta.mail.Session` type without an explicit JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource
private Session session;

public void sendMail(YourMail mail) throws MessagingException {
    Message message = new MimeMessage(session);
    // ...
}
----

If you have more than one mail session reference specified, then you need to explicitly specify the JNDI resource name.

[source,java]
----
@Resource(name="java:global/YourMailSessionName")
private Session session;

public void sendMail(YourMail mail) throws MessagingException {
    Message message = new MimeMessage(session);
    // ...
}
----
