src/main/asciidoc/webapp/webapp003.adoc, before:

== A Web Module That Uses Jakarta Faces Technology: The hello1 Example

The `hello1` application is a web module that uses Jakarta Faces technology to display a greeting and response.
You can use a text editor to view the application files, or you can use NetBeans IDE.

The source code for this application is in the `_tut-install_/examples/web/jsf/hello1/` directory.

=== To View the hello1 Web Module Using NetBeans IDE

To view the `hello1` web module using NetBeans IDE:

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/jsf
----

. Select the `hello1` folder and click *Open Project*.

. Expand the *Web Pages* node and double-click the `index.xhtml` file to view it in the editor.
+
The `index.xhtml` file is the default landing page for a Facelets application.
In a typical Facelets application, web pages are created in XHTML.
For this application, the page uses simple tag markup to display a form with a graphic image, a header, a field, and two command buttons:
+
[source,xml]
----
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="jakarta.faces.html">
    <h:head>
        <title>Facelets Hello Greeting</title>
    </h:head>
    <h:body>
        <h:form>
            <h:graphicImage url="#{resource['images:duke.waving.gif']}"
                            alt="Duke waving his hand"/>
            <h2>Hello, my name is Duke. What's yours?</h2>
            <h:inputText id="username"
                         title="My name is: "
                         value="#{hello.name}"
                         required="true"
                         requiredMessage="Error: A name is required."
                         maxlength="25" />
            <p></p>
            <h:commandButton id="submit" value="Submit" action="response">
            </h:commandButton>
            <h:commandButton id="reset" value="Reset" type="reset">
            </h:commandButton>
        </h:form>
        ...
    </h:body>
</html>
----
+
The most complex element on the page is the `inputText` field.
The `maxlength` attribute specifies the maximum length of the field.
The `required` attribute specifies that the field must be filled out; the `requiredMessage` attribute provides the error message to be displayed if the field is left empty.
The `title` attribute provides the text to be used by screen readers for the visually disabled.
Finally, the `value` attribute contains an expression that will be provided by the `Hello` managed bean.
+
The web page connects to the `Hello` managed bean through the Expression Language (EL) value expression `#{hello.name}`, which retrieves the value of the `name` property from the managed bean.
Note the use of `hello` to reference the managed bean `Hello`.
If no name is specified in the `@Named` annotation of the managed bean, the managed bean is always accessed with the first letter of the class name in lowercase.
+
The Submit `commandButton` element specifies the action as `response`, meaning that when the button is clicked, the `response.xhtml` page is displayed.

. Double-click the `response.xhtml` file to view it.
+
The response page appears.Even simpler than the greeting page, the response page contains a graphic image, a header that displays the expression provided by the managed bean, and a single button whose `action` element transfers you back to the `index.xhtml` page:
+
[source,xml]
----
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="jakarta.faces.html">
    <h:head>
        <title>Facelets Hello Response</title>
    </h:head>
    <h:body>
        <h:form>
            <h:graphicImage url="#{resource['images:duke.waving.gif']}"
                            alt="Duke waving his hand"/>
            <h2>Hello, #{hello.name}!</h2>
            <p></p>
            <h:commandButton id="back" value="Back" action="index" />
        </h:form>
    </h:body>
</html>
----

. Expand the Source Packages node, then the `ee.jakarta.tutorial.hello1` node.

. [[hello1-nb-step-7, Step 7]] Double-click the `Hello.java` file to view it.
+
The `Hello` class, called a managed bean class, provides getter and setter methods for the `name` property used in the Facelets page expressions.
By default, the expression language refers to the class name, with the first letter in lowercase (`hello.name`).
+
[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.hello1;

import jakarta.enterprise.context.RequestScoped;
import jakarta.inject.Named;

@Named
@RequestScoped
public class Hello {

    private String name;

    public Hello() {
    }

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String user_name) {
        this.name = user_name;
    }
}
----
+
If you use the default name for the bean class, you can specify `@Model` as the annotation instead of having to specify both `@Named` and `@RequestScoped`.
The `@Model` annotation is called a stereotype, a term for an annotation that encapsulates other annotations.
It is described later in <<using-stereotypes-in-cdi-applications>>.
Some examples will use `@Model` where it is appropriate.

. Under the Web Pages node, expand the WEB-INF node and double-click the `web.xml` file to view it.
+
The `web.xml` file contains several elements that are required for a Facelets application.
All of the following are created automatically when you use NetBeans IDE to create an application.

* A context parameter specifying the project stage:
+
[source,xml]
----
<context-param>
    <param-name>jakarta.faces.PROJECT_STAGE</param-name>
    <param-value>Development</param-value>
</context-param>
----
+
A context parameter provides configuration information needed by a web application.
An application can define its own context parameters.
In addition, Jakarta Faces technology and Jakarta Servlet technology define context parameters that an application can use.

* A `servlet` element and its `servlet-mapping` element specifying the `FacesServlet`. All files with the `.xhtml` suffix will be matched:
+
[source,xml]
----
<servlet>
    <servlet-name>Faces Servlet</servlet-name>
    <servlet-class>jakarta.faces.webapp.FacesServlet</servlet-class>
    <load-on-startup>1</load-on-startup>
</servlet>
<servlet-mapping>
    <servlet-name>Faces Servlet</servlet-name>
    <url-pattern>*.xhtml</url-pattern>
</servlet-mapping>
----

* A `welcome-file-list` element specifying the location of the landing page:
+
[source,xml]
----
<welcome-file-list>
    <welcome-file>index.xhtml</welcome-file>
</welcome-file-list>
----

==== Introduction to Scopes

In the `Hello.java` class, the annotations `jakarta.inject.Named` and `jakarta.enterprise.context.RequestScoped` identify the class as a managed bean using request scope.
Scope defines how application data persists and is shared.

The most commonly used scopes in Jakarta Faces applications are the following:

Request (`@RequestScoped`):: Request scope persists during a single HTTP request in a web application.
In an application like `hello1`, in which the application consists of a single request and response, the bean uses request scope.

Session (`@SessionScoped`):: Session scope persists across multiple HTTP requests in a web application.
When an application consists of multiple requests and responses where data needs to be maintained, beans use session scope.

Application (`@ApplicationScoped`):: Application scope persists across all users' interactions with a web application.

For more information on scopes in Jakarta Faces technology, see <<using-managed-bean-scopes>>.

=== Packaging and Deploying the hello1 Web Module

A web module must be packaged into a WAR in certain deployment scenarios and whenever you want to distribute the web module.
You can package a web module into a WAR file by using Maven or by using the IDE tool of your choice.
This tutorial shows you how to use NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, and deploy the `hello1` sample application.

You can deploy a WAR file to GlassFish Server by:

* Using NetBeans IDE

* Using the `asadmin` command

* Using the Administration Console

* Copying the WAR file into the `_domain-dir_/autodeploy/` directory

Throughout the tutorial, you will use NetBeans IDE or Maven for packaging and deploying.

==== To Build, Package and Deploy the hello1 Web Module Using NetBeans IDE

To build and package the `hello1` web module using NetBeans IDE:

. Start GlassFish Server as described in <<to-start-glassfish-server-using-netbeans-ide>>, if you have not already done so.

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/jsf
----

. Select the `hello1` folder.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `hello1` project and select *Build*. This command deploys the project to the server.

==== To Build, Package and Deploy the hello1 Web Module Using Maven

To build and package the `hello1` web module using Maven:

. Start GlassFish Server as described in <<to-start-glassfish-server-using-the-command-line>>, if you have not already done so.

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/jsf/hello1/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command spawns any necessary compilations and creates the WAR file in `_tut-install_/examples/web/jsf/hello1/target/`.
It then deploys the project to the server.

=== Viewing Deployed Web Modules

GlassFish Server provides two ways to view the deployed web modules: the Administration Console and the `asadmin` command.
You can also use NetBeans IDE to view deployed modules.

==== To View Deployed Web Modules Using the Administration Console

To view deployed web modules using the Administration Console:

. Open the URL http://localhost:4848/[^] in a browser.

. Select the Applications node.
+
The deployed web modules appear in the Deployed Applications table.

==== To View Deployed Web Modules Using the asadmin Command

Enter the following command:

[source,shell]
----
asadmin list-applications
----

==== To View Deployed Web Modules Using NetBeans IDE

To view deployed web modules using NetBeans IDE:

. In the *Services* tab, expand the *Servers* node, then expand the *GlassFish Server* node.

. Expand the *Applications* node to view the deployed modules.

=== Running the Deployed hello1 Web Module

Now that the web module is deployed, you can view it by opening the application in a web browser.
By default, the application is deployed to host `localhost` on port 8080.
The context root of the web application is `hello1`.

To run the deployed `hello1` web module:

. Open a web browser.

. Enter the following URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/hello1/
----

. In the field, enter your name and click Submit.
+
The response page displays the name you submitted. Click Back to try again.

==== Dynamic Reloading of Deployed Modules

If dynamic reloading is enabled, you do not have to redeploy an application or module when you change its code or deployment descriptors.
All you have to do is copy the changed pages or class files into the deployment directory for the application or module.
The deployment directory for a web module named context-root is `_domain-dir_/applications/_context-root_`.
The server checks for changes periodically and redeploys the application, automatically and dynamically, with the changes.

This capability is useful in a development environment because it allows code changes to be tested quickly.
Dynamic reloading is not recommended for a production environment, however, because it may degrade performance.
In addition, whenever a reload takes place, the sessions at that time become invalid, and the client must restart the session.

In GlassFish Server, dynamic reloading is enabled by default.

=== Undeploying the hello1 Web Module

You can undeploy web modules and other types of enterprise applications by using either NetBeans IDE or Maven.

==== To Undeploy the hello1 Web Module Using NetBeans IDE

To undeploy the `hello1` web module using NetBeans IDE:

. In the *Services* tab, expand the *Servers* node, then expand the *GlassFish Server* node.

. Expand the *Applications* node.

. Right-click the `hello1` module and select *Undeploy*.

. To delete the class files and other build artifacts, go back to the *Projects* tab, right-click the project, and select *Clean*.

==== To Undeploy the hello1 Web Module Using Maven

To undeploy the `hello1` web module using Maven:

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/jsf/hello1/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn cargo:undeploy
----

. To delete the class files and other build artifacts, enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn clean
----

Commit message:

Replace jsf to faces in all places
Signed-off-by: Dmitri Cherkas <dmitricerkas@yahoo.com>

src/main/asciidoc/webapp/webapp003.adoc, after:

== A Web Module That Uses Jakarta Faces Technology: The hello1 Example

The `hello1` application is a web module that uses Jakarta Faces technology to display a greeting and response.
You can use a text editor to view the application files, or you can use NetBeans IDE.

The source code for this application is in the `_tut-install_/examples/web/faces/hello1/` directory.

=== To View the hello1 Web Module Using NetBeans IDE

To view the `hello1` web module using NetBeans IDE:

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/faces
----

. Select the `hello1` folder and click *Open Project*.

. Expand the *Web Pages* node and double-click the `index.xhtml` file to view it in the editor.
+
The `index.xhtml` file is the default landing page for a Facelets application.
In a typical Facelets application, web pages are created in XHTML.
For this application, the page uses simple tag markup to display a form with a graphic image, a header, a field, and two command buttons:
+
[source,xml]
----
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="jakarta.faces.html">
    <h:head>
        <title>Facelets Hello Greeting</title>
    </h:head>
    <h:body>
        <h:form>
            <h:graphicImage url="#{resource['images:duke.waving.gif']}"
                            alt="Duke waving his hand"/>
            <h2>Hello, my name is Duke. What's yours?</h2>
            <h:inputText id="username"
                         title="My name is: "
                         value="#{hello.name}"
                         required="true"
                         requiredMessage="Error: A name is required."
                         maxlength="25" />
            <p></p>
            <h:commandButton id="submit" value="Submit" action="response">
            </h:commandButton>
            <h:commandButton id="reset" value="Reset" type="reset">
            </h:commandButton>
        </h:form>
        ...
    </h:body>
</html>
----
+
The most complex element on the page is the `inputText` field.
The `maxlength` attribute specifies the maximum length of the field.
The `required` attribute specifies that the field must be filled out; the `requiredMessage` attribute provides the error message to be displayed if the field is left empty.
The `title` attribute provides the text to be used by screen readers for the visually disabled.
Finally, the `value` attribute contains an expression that will be provided by the `Hello` managed bean.
+
The web page connects to the `Hello` managed bean through the Expression Language (EL) value expression `#{hello.name}`, which retrieves the value of the `name` property from the managed bean.
Note the use of `hello` to reference the managed bean `Hello`.
If no name is specified in the `@Named` annotation of the managed bean, the managed bean is always accessed with the first letter of the class name in lowercase.
+
The Submit `commandButton` element specifies the action as `response`, meaning that when the button is clicked, the `response.xhtml` page is displayed.

. Double-click the `response.xhtml` file to view it.
+
The response page appears.Even simpler than the greeting page, the response page contains a graphic image, a header that displays the expression provided by the managed bean, and a single button whose `action` element transfers you back to the `index.xhtml` page:
+
[source,xml]
----
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="jakarta.faces.html">
    <h:head>
        <title>Facelets Hello Response</title>
    </h:head>
    <h:body>
        <h:form>
            <h:graphicImage url="#{resource['images:duke.waving.gif']}"
                            alt="Duke waving his hand"/>
            <h2>Hello, #{hello.name}!</h2>
            <p></p>
            <h:commandButton id="back" value="Back" action="index" />
        </h:form>
    </h:body>
</html>
----

. Expand the Source Packages node, then the `ee.jakarta.tutorial.hello1` node.

. [[hello1-nb-step-7, Step 7]] Double-click the `Hello.java` file to view it.
+
The `Hello` class, called a managed bean class, provides getter and setter methods for the `name` property used in the Facelets page expressions.
By default, the expression language refers to the class name, with the first letter in lowercase (`hello.name`).
+
[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.hello1;

import jakarta.enterprise.context.RequestScoped;
import jakarta.inject.Named;

@Named
@RequestScoped
public class Hello {

    private String name;

    public Hello() {
    }

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String user_name) {
        this.name = user_name;
    }
}
----
+
If you use the default name for the bean class, you can specify `@Model` as the annotation instead of having to specify both `@Named` and `@RequestScoped`.
The `@Model` annotation is called a stereotype, a term for an annotation that encapsulates other annotations.
It is described later in <<using-stereotypes-in-cdi-applications>>.
Some examples will use `@Model` where it is appropriate.

. Under the Web Pages node, expand the WEB-INF node and double-click the `web.xml` file to view it.
+
The `web.xml` file contains several elements that are required for a Facelets application.
All of the following are created automatically when you use NetBeans IDE to create an application.

* A context parameter specifying the project stage:
+
[source,xml]
----
<context-param>
    <param-name>jakarta.faces.PROJECT_STAGE</param-name>
    <param-value>Development</param-value>
</context-param>
----
+
A context parameter provides configuration information needed by a web application.
An application can define its own context parameters.
In addition, Jakarta Faces technology and Jakarta Servlet technology define context parameters that an application can use.

* A `servlet` element and its `servlet-mapping` element specifying the `FacesServlet`. All files with the `.xhtml` suffix will be matched:
+
[source,xml]
----
<servlet>
    <servlet-name>Faces Servlet</servlet-name>
    <servlet-class>jakarta.faces.webapp.FacesServlet</servlet-class>
    <load-on-startup>1</load-on-startup>
</servlet>
<servlet-mapping>
    <servlet-name>Faces Servlet</servlet-name>
    <url-pattern>*.xhtml</url-pattern>
</servlet-mapping>
----

* A `welcome-file-list` element specifying the location of the landing page:
+
[source,xml]
----
<welcome-file-list>
    <welcome-file>index.xhtml</welcome-file>
</welcome-file-list>
----

==== Introduction to Scopes

In the `Hello.java` class, the annotations `jakarta.inject.Named` and `jakarta.enterprise.context.RequestScoped` identify the class as a managed bean using request scope.
Scope defines how application data persists and is shared.

The most commonly used scopes in Jakarta Faces applications are the following:

Request (`@RequestScoped`):: Request scope persists during a single HTTP request in a web application.
In an application like `hello1`, in which the application consists of a single request and response, the bean uses request scope.

Session (`@SessionScoped`):: Session scope persists across multiple HTTP requests in a web application.
When an application consists of multiple requests and responses where data needs to be maintained, beans use session scope.

Application (`@ApplicationScoped`):: Application scope persists across all users' interactions with a web application.

For more information on scopes in Jakarta Faces technology, see <<using-managed-bean-scopes>>.

=== Packaging and Deploying the hello1 Web Module

A web module must be packaged into a WAR in certain deployment scenarios and whenever you want to distribute the web module.
You can package a web module into a WAR file by using Maven or by using the IDE tool of your choice.
This tutorial shows you how to use NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, and deploy the `hello1` sample application.

You can deploy a WAR file to GlassFish Server by:

* Using NetBeans IDE

* Using the `asadmin` command

* Using the Administration Console

* Copying the WAR file into the `_domain-dir_/autodeploy/` directory

Throughout the tutorial, you will use NetBeans IDE or Maven for packaging and deploying.

==== To Build, Package and Deploy the hello1 Web Module Using NetBeans IDE

To build and package the `hello1` web module using NetBeans IDE:

. Start GlassFish Server as described in <<to-start-glassfish-server-using-netbeans-ide>>, if you have not already done so.

. From the *File* menu, choose *Open Project*.

. In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/faces
----

. Select the `hello1` folder.

. Click *Open Project*.

. In the *Projects* tab, right-click the `hello1` project and select *Build*. This command deploys the project to the server.

==== To Build, Package and Deploy the hello1 Web Module Using Maven

To build and package the `hello1` web module using Maven:

. Start GlassFish Server as described in <<to-start-glassfish-server-using-the-command-line>>, if you have not already done so.

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/faces/hello1/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command spawns any necessary compilations and creates the WAR file in `_tut-install_/examples/web/faces/hello1/target/`.
It then deploys the project to the server.

=== Viewing Deployed Web Modules

GlassFish Server provides two ways to view the deployed web modules: the Administration Console and the `asadmin` command.
You can also use NetBeans IDE to view deployed modules.

==== To View Deployed Web Modules Using the Administration Console

To view deployed web modules using the Administration Console:

. Open the URL http://localhost:4848/[^] in a browser.

. Select the Applications node.
+
The deployed web modules appear in the Deployed Applications table.

==== To View Deployed Web Modules Using the asadmin Command

Enter the following command:

[source,shell]
----
asadmin list-applications
----

==== To View Deployed Web Modules Using NetBeans IDE

To view deployed web modules using NetBeans IDE:

. In the *Services* tab, expand the *Servers* node, then expand the *GlassFish Server* node.

. Expand the *Applications* node to view the deployed modules.

=== Running the Deployed hello1 Web Module

Now that the web module is deployed, you can view it by opening the application in a web browser.
By default, the application is deployed to host `localhost` on port 8080.
The context root of the web application is `hello1`.

To run the deployed `hello1` web module:

. Open a web browser.

. Enter the following URL:
+
----
http://localhost:8080/hello1/
----

. In the field, enter your name and click Submit.
+
The response page displays the name you submitted. Click Back to try again.

==== Dynamic Reloading of Deployed Modules

If dynamic reloading is enabled, you do not have to redeploy an application or module when you change its code or deployment descriptors.
All you have to do is copy the changed pages or class files into the deployment directory for the application or module.
The deployment directory for a web module named context-root is `_domain-dir_/applications/_context-root_`.
The server checks for changes periodically and redeploys the application, automatically and dynamically, with the changes.

This capability is useful in a development environment because it allows code changes to be tested quickly.
Dynamic reloading is not recommended for a production environment, however, because it may degrade performance.
In addition, whenever a reload takes place, the sessions at that time become invalid, and the client must restart the session.

In GlassFish Server, dynamic reloading is enabled by default.

=== Undeploying the hello1 Web Module

You can undeploy web modules and other types of enterprise applications by using either NetBeans IDE or Maven.

==== To Undeploy the hello1 Web Module Using NetBeans IDE

To undeploy the `hello1` web module using NetBeans IDE:

. In the *Services* tab, expand the *Servers* node, then expand the *GlassFish Server* node.

. Expand the *Applications* node.

. Right-click the `hello1` module and select *Undeploy*.

. To delete the class files and other build artifacts, go back to the *Projects* tab, right-click the project, and select *Clean*.

==== To Undeploy the hello1 Web Module Using Maven

To undeploy the `hello1` web module using Maven:

. In a terminal window, go to:
+
----
tut-install/examples/web/faces/hello1/
----

. Enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn cargo:undeploy
----

. To delete the class files and other build artifacts, enter the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn clean
----
