src/main/asciidoc/jsonp/jsonp005.adoc, before:

[[json-in-jakarta-ee-restful-web-services]]
== JSON in Jakarta EE RESTful Web Services

This section explains how the Jakarta JSON Processing is related to
other Jakarta EE packages that provide JSON support for RESTful web
services. See link:#GIEPU[Chapter 32, "Building RESTful Web
Services with Jakarta RESTful Web Services,"] for more information on RESTful web services.

Jersey, the Jakarta RESTful Web Services implementation included in
GlassFish Server, provides support for binding JSON data from RESTful
resource methods to Java objects using Jakarta XML Binding, as described in
link:#GKKNJ[Using Jakarta RESTful Web Services with JAXB] in
link:#GJJXE[Chapter 34, "Jakarta RESTful Web Services: Advanced Topics and
an Example"]. However, JSON support is not part of Jakarta RESTful Web Services or
Jakarta XML Binding, so that procedure may not work for Jakarta EE
implementations other than GlassFish Server.

You can still use the Jakarta JSON Processing with Jakarta RESTful Web Services resource
methods. For more information, see the sample code for JSON Processing
included with the Jakarta EE 8 SDK.

Commit message:

Format Chapter 20 JSON-P
Format the document to fixed-width of 72 characters
Change link macros to cross reference
Remove section anchors

Signed-off-by: hussainm <hussain.nm@cognizant.com>

src/main/asciidoc/jsonp/jsonp005.adoc, after:

== JSON in Jakarta EE RESTful Web Services

This section explains how the Jakarta JSON Processing is related to
other Jakarta EE packages that provide JSON support for RESTful web
services. See
xref:building-restful-web-services-with-jakarta-rest[xrefstyle=full]
for more information on RESTful web services.

Jersey, the Jakarta RESTful Web Services implementation included in
GlassFish Server, provides support for binding JSON data from RESTful
resource methods to Java objects using Jakarta XML Binding, as
described in <<using-jakarta-rest-with-jakarta-xml-binding>> in
xref:jakarta-rest-advanced-topics-and-an-example[xrefstyle=full].
However, JSON support is not part of Jakarta RESTful Web Services or
Jakarta XML Binding, so that procedure may not work for Jakarta EE
implementations other than GlassFish Server.

You can still use the Jakarta JSON Processing with Jakarta RESTful Web
Services resource methods. For more information, see the sample code
for JSON Processing included with the Jakarta EE tutorial examples.
